Artwork ‘Luwaytini ’ by Mark Cleaver, Palawa
IDEA Framework case study : Pride in Sport
RMIT Sport ’s programs are committed to strengthening diversity, inclusion and access for
all students by eliminating barriers to participation. The work being undertaken by RMIT
Sport embeds the IDEA Framework, while underpinning i ts commitment to equity for
Key contributors: Sally Tanner , Manager Sport and Fitness
“It’s a fundamental right for everyone to participate in the sport or physical activity of their
choice . The IDEA Framework provides an opportunity for the whole university community
to strive towards inclusive excellence. We’re looking forward to playing our role in sport to
provide more inclusive facilities and services creating more supportive and respectful
environments so that everyone can feel like they belong .” – Sally Tanner
IDEA Framework domain 1: Access and Participation
In line with IDEA, RMIT sport is committed to a more diverse student and st aff profile with equity
in retention, success and outcomes. This was recognised in 2022, when RMIT sport attained
silver in the Pride in Sport Index industry benchmark for inclusive practice in sport.
RMIT Sport has also:
• hosted more than ten pride rounds across its clubs
• had more than 150 students participating in Pride Day at UniNationals in Perth
• had more than 100 students attended the RMIT Sport Pride Party for Wear It Purple Day
Furthermore, RMIT Sport is committed to:
• working with student inclusion ambassadors to assess barriers to participation and work
• working to embed the voices of students with lived experience i n programming
• identifying financial barriers to participation, e.g. scholarships and seeking ways to
address these and increasing student employability through the RMIT Sport Centre
Artwork ‘Luwaytini ’ by Mark Cleaver, Palawa
IDEA Framework domain 2: Culture , Capability and Leadership
For RMIT S port, c ultivating an environment where all individuals are supported, are respected,
feel a sense of belonging, and are thriving is crucial in increasing access and inclusion.
Leaders play a critical role in modelling inclusion, and it strives to create an envir onment where
all individuals are respected, experience safety and belonging.
Students consistently report feeling more closely connected to their peers and the university
through participation in sport.
RMIT Sport works to model inclusive behaviour by :
• having visible role models through our student inclusion ambassadors
• investing in professional development for staff
• having all RMIT Sport volunteers undertaking LGBTIQA+ awareness training through
UniSport and Bystander Intervention training at RMI T
• having a formal process for reporting incidents of discrimination and easily accessible
information on support services at the U niversity .
IDEA Framework domain 4: Infrastructure, Services and Operations
For RMIT Spo rt, inclusive facilities and services contribute to equity . With various facilities
across various campuses, RMIT S port has been working to provide inclusive spaces and
facilities for students by ensuring there are :
• gender neutral changerooms across all sport facilities
• an Inclusive Sport Handbook which provides advice to student -run clubs to widen
participation and ensure inclusion
• improving communications of available resources and services .