Quick Reference to Common Phrases/Shorthand
ELP: Equitable Learning Plan
ELA: Equitable Learning and Accessibility
EAA: Equitable Assessment Arrangement
RA: Reasonable Adjustment
Learning Impact Statement: The text at the top of your ELP that describes
the impacts of your condition.Equitable Learning & Accessibility:
Guide to our process and FAQs
Please read over your ELP to make sure you’re clear
with what was discussed during your appointment.
You will be provided with a copy of your ELP – it will be attached to an email from
‘RMIT Connect’ (attached as a PDF). It will be sent to a nominated contact person
in your school for distribution to your course coordinators, lecturers and tutors.
The library will receive a copy of your ELP so they can better help you use Library
resources and find accessible information (https://www.rmit.edu.au/library/aboutand-contacts/disability-contacts)
Communicating with academic/teaching staff
We recommend that you personally forward your ELP to your teaching staff
to directly communicate your Reasonable Adjustments and Equitable Assessment
Arrangements to ensure they are implemented in a timely manner.
If you need assistance to communicate with teaching staff you can contact an ELA
Advisor. ELA also have email templates they can share.
Discussing your ELP with your academic/teaching staff
You can book a meeting time with relevant teaching staff to discuss your ELP.
Some teaching staff offer student appointments that you can book otherwise you
can email them and request a meeting time or simply advise that you have an ELP
Discussion topics may include:
• Implementation of specific recommendations in your ELP
• Organising arrangements for assessments
• Your Learning Impact Statement
If you need assistance to meet with teaching staff you can contact an ELA Advisor.
When you register with us, you will be asked to complete a confidentiality form.
This allows us to share relevant information about the impact of your disability
to other relevant staff at RMIT. We will not disclose your disability unless you have
All staff at RMIT must treat your personal information confidentially and respectfully.
RMIT staff are subject to the Information Privacy Act 2000 and the Health Records
• Read your Equitable Learning Plan, and get to know it well
• Email your Equitable Learning Plan to new teaching staff throughout the
academic year. Remember to do this in second semester too.
• Ensure that your Equitable Learning Plan is working. If you are concerned
about how your Equitable Learning Plan is being implemented, speak to your
teaching staff first. If your Equitable Learning Plan isn’t being followed, contact
Library: Get help with your studies, coursework, assessments, finding information and
Study Support: Free study support services and resources to help you build your
academic skills and take your grades to the next level.
Peer Mentoring: Connect with another student who can help you with your
coursework, general study skills, and academic confidence.
Mental Wellbeing and Counselling: No one should face their problems alone.
If you need someone to talk to - reach out. You can talk to someone at RMIT or call
a confidential support line.
Student Support: You can receive information, advice and assistance in relation to
accommodation, legal, finances, and enrolment.
Career Support: Meet with a dedicated Careers Counsellor specialising in supporting
students with a disability to discuss any topics regarding career opportunities and your
own abilities in a professional and confidential space.
Clubs and Societies: Choose a club, select a society and bring your university
Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander students: ELA and Ngarara Willim Centre have
a dedicated support approach that is culturally sensitive for students with a disability
who are indigenous, please let ELA know if you would like to know more about this.Key Messages
Resources and Service
How do I ask for an extension using my ELP?
Approach the relevant academic responsible for the assessment, via email is best.
Clearly ask for an extension and suggest a reasonable new due date that considers the
impacts of your disability, illness and/or mental health condition and the type of
assessment. You need to suggest a new due date, which may be MORE than seven days.
You cannot seek an extension if the due date has passed using your ELP.
The most common extension request is 14 days for a 2000 word assignment.
When is special consideration relevant to me?
• If you have the Equitable Assessment Arrangement of Student Absence, you’ll need
to follow the process as detailed in your ELP which includes applying through special
consideration when you are requesting a deferral of any test/equivalent
• If you did not ask for extension before the due date has lapsed
• If you are seeking a 2nd extension on an already extended assessment
• If something unexpected happens, such as missing assessments due to a family
member’s funeral, the correct process is to apply for special consideration.I’ve requested an extension via email and I haven’t had a response.
If you can’t get a response from your teaching staff, please contact your Program Manager.
If you don’t hear back, ask us for assistance.What if I’m directed to special consideration by my academic when
asking for an extension?
If this is your first extension request for that assignment, you do not need to apply
through special consideration. We would suggest you reply to your academic, highlighting
the information within your ELP that allows you to negotiate extensions without special
consideration. You can reach out to ELA (ELA@rmit.edu.au) for advice or support
in this situation. My School has directed me to complete a “form” in order to have my
extension request considered?
Schools have their own administration processes in managing the ‘paper trail’ of extension
requests. If you are expected to complete the form, do so, but do not provide any medical
documentation, simply attach your ELP as the documentation associated with the need for
These forms often state that if you are applying for an extension greater than 7 days, you
need ‘special consideration’ - if this is a first extension request for that assessment, ignore
this and follow the process detailed in your ELP.
Equitable Assessment Arrangements
EL&A ProcessesHow does my additional time get added to my tests or timed invigilated
Contact your relevant academic for that course via email, at least two weeks prior to the
assessment, and prior to EAA cutoff date (as advertised on RMIT Important Dates) to draw
their attention to your ELP and the EAAs that relate to tests and other assessments you may
want to use format below:
I have an Equitable Learning Plan with Equitable Assessment Arrangements (EAA) included. I would like to bring
to your attention the following: EAA - Additional Working Time: (insert amount as stated in your ELP) per hour
(Include any other EAAs relevant to the timing or scheduling of your tests/exams) I am requesting the above
be accommodated for the following assessments: (List tests or exams - include time and date)
If you would prefer to use a template, contact ELA for a copy that they would recommend.
Do I need to provide updated supporting documentation at the
start of every year?
The expiry date on ELPs relate to the nature of your diagnosed condition. If you have
an ongoing condition and have provided us with documentation that confirms its ongoing
nature and impacts, your ELP may be established for the life of your program.
If you provided ELA with documentation that either do not have a clear “impact timeframe”
or had an end date communicated by the health care practitioner, your ELP may be valid
for one academic year or less. In that case, you will need to provide ELA with new updated
documentation in order to have your ELP rolled over into a new year.
The expiry date is communicated on your ELP, if you are unsure of your ELPs expiry date,
check your ELP for this information.
If I change my program do I need to update my ELP?
Yes, ELA is dependent on you sharing this information. Please contact ELA via
ELA@rmit.edu.au to change your ELP to be relevant for your new program.
If the new program is very different from previous program – make an appointment
to review your ELP to ensure the recommendations are relevant to your area of study.
If I am doing an elective outside of my home school,
do I need to share my ELP with relevant academic/teaching staff?
Yes, ELS is dependent on you sharing this information if you are doing a course or subject that
is not run by your home School. If needed, you can also make an appointment to review your
ELP to ensure the recommendations are relevant to this type of arrangement.
Please contact ELA via ELA@rmit.edu.au to change your ELP to be relevant for your new
program. If the new program is very different from previous program – make an appointment
to review your ELP to ensure the recommendations are relevant to your area of study.
EL&A Processes continued
My circumstances have changed, what should I do?
Make an appointment with an ELA Advisor to discuss what’s changed for you.
The ELA Advisor may suggest amending your ELP to better reflect your new circumstances
or could refer to you other services at the university.
When should I contact ELA?
You can contact ELA at any time of your enrolment with RMIT. However if you require
any adjustments to your assessments, it is recommended for you to contact us early in the
Can an ELA Advisor meet with me and my academic/teacher?
Yes. If you need to discuss your ELP and implementing some of the adjustments, an ELA
Advisor can assist you in having this conversation if needed.
I have placement as part of my program, can ELA provide support
Yes. An appointment with an ELA Advisor would be recommended to ensure an in-depth
discussion can occur.
It is important understanding the requirements of the program or course that you are
undertaking. This may include being aware of the inherent requirements for registering
with a relevant professional body. RMIT has a great Preparing for WIL resource that would