Inclusion, Diversity, Equity and Access (IDEA) Framework
Introducing IDEA: Our aspirations for
inclusion, diversity, equity and access for
RMIT knows that when a system is built with
inclusion in mind, enabling structures become
norm, and less barriers stand in the way of
a person’s ability to thrive.
We also know this doesn’t remove the need to
address unique needs and discrimination, and
create enabling environments for people
with differing lived experiences.
This Inclusion, Diversity, Equity and Access
(IDEA) framework creates a blueprint for
designing an inclusive and
The primary objective is that everyone feels
included and enabled to thrive in every RMIT
in all circumstances.
Inclusive by Design: Everyone, Everywhere, All the time
The guiding principles to achieve our aspirations
Drive an intersectional whole-of-institution
approach, sharing and celebrating our good
practice and aligning around common
Embed ‘Responsible Practice’ in our thinking and
doing, by every member of our community
Be inclusive by design by planning for the
diversity of the community from the outset in
Support insight and action on inclusion, diversity,
equity and access across all locations and
operations in the RMIT Group
Have the flexibility to respond to emerging needs
and priorities Our Domains
The IDEA framework identifies five domains of Inclusive
Excellence that define the aspirations and priority action areas
to drive action across RMIT Group. Through the domains, we
will address systems, processes, policies, capabilities and
cultural norms to progress our goal of being inclusive by
and Success A more diverse student and staff
profile with equity in retention,
success and outcomes.
Leadership Environment where all individuals
are supported, are respected, feel a
sense of belonging, and are thriving.
and Research Education and research that
demonstrate best practice in
inclusion, diversity, equity and access.
Operations Inclusive facilities and services.
Planning, resourcing and
communicating our IDEA
Partnerships Engaging reciprocally and in
partnership with the communities
diversity, equity and access.
RMIT Aspirations for Inclusion, Diversity, Equity and Access
Access, Participation
A more diverse student and
staff profile with equity in
retention, success and
1. We empower all students and staff
to pursue learning through life and
work and fulfilling careers.
2. We are a diverse community and
enable equity in retention, success
and outcomes for staff and students.
3. All RMIT students will thrive and
succeed in their education, enabled
through personalised student
experiences and services delivered
4. We are a leader in employability and
strive to achieve parity in
employment outcomes for all our
5. We provide equitable access to
career development and
progression opportunities for staff. Culture, Capability
An environment where all
individuals are supported, are
respected, feel a sense of
belonging, and are thriving.
1. Inclusion and belonging are core to
our identity at RMIT. All members of
the student and staff community
play an active role in inclusion and
our culture creates an environment
where all individuals are respected,
experience safety and belonging,
2. Our leaders and decision makers
are highly skilled and inclusive with
diverse backgrounds and
perspectives who are committed to
reflecting and advancing the
communities we serve.
3. Our community of leaders, students
and staff are empowered to develop
and apply best practice in inclusion,
diversity, equity and access. Education and
Education and research that
demonstrate best practice in
inclusion, diversity, equity
1. Our programs, curriculum,
pedagogy, and delivery are inspiring,
inclusive, accessible, and flexible.
2. Equity and inclusion principles and
practices are embedded into the
curriculum, valuing diversity of
thought, perspectives, and
3. RMIT students and staff are culturally
intelligent Ethical Global Citizens
who can lead and apply best
practice in inclusion, diversity, equity
and access across all disciplines and
4. RMIT researchers apply and lead
best practice on inclusion, diversity,
equity and access matters, and in
research with, about and for the
diverse communities we serve. Infrastructure, Service
Inclusive facilities and
services. Planning, resourcing
and communicating our IDEA
1. RMIT is ‘inclusive by design’.
2. All RMIT physical, digital and
cultural environments are inclusive,
accessible and safe.
3. We use evidence and evaluation to
continuously improve our practice.
4. RMIT applies a lens of inclusion,
diversity, equity and access to
assess the impact of strategic and
operational priorities, planning and
investment decisions, and leverages
its buying power to drive inclusion
and positive community outcomes Community and
Engaging reciprocally and in
partnership with the
communities we serve,
promoting inclusion,
diversity, equity and access.
1. We live up to our ambition to make
a positive societal difference in the
communities where we are located.
2. We seek to be a source of good
practice in inclusion, diversity,
equity and access and to address
our mission to the broader
community through a positive
influence on public policy, academic
practice and broader societal debate
3. RMIT partners with industry,
communities and community
organisations to identify and
overcome needs and challenges and
to engender a more inclusive