Inclusive language at RMIT
Artwork ‘Luwaytini’ by Mark Cleaver, Palawa
Document: Inclusive Language Guide
Author: Student and People Equity & Inclusion Teams
Save Date: 25/05/2023
Inclusive Language at RMIT
RMIT is committed to ensuring an equitable and inclusive experience for staff and students,
reflected through our organisational value of ‘Inclusion .’
Language is critical to inclusion. It can be affirming and allow us to feel seen, or it can make us feel
excluded and that we don’t belong – even when we don’t intend to.
Creating and maintaining an inclusive culture is everybody’s responsibility, and language is a way
in which we can all make RMIT a better place for all staff, students, and community.
This guide has been designed for RMIT staff and students and is adapte d from resources produced
by Diversity Council of Australia, the Victorian Government, and others (a full list is available at the
end of the document).
1. Respect for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders peoples
RMIT acknowledges that we live, work, and participate in the production of knowledge on the
unceded lands of Aboriginal and/or Torres Strait Islander peoples. RMIT’s City, Brunswick and
Bundoora campuses and the Point Cook site are on the traditional lands of the Kulin nation. The
Hamilton site is on traditional lands of the Gundjitmara .
Bundjil’s Statement has been developed to deepen the RMIT community’s ngarn -go
(understandings) of how to live and work lawfully and respectfully on the Kulin Nation. Lea rn more
about our commitment: https://www.rmit.edu.au/staff/our -rmit/indigenous -engagement/bundjil statement
Respectful and culturally aware communication is one way that all staff can support this
1.1. Appropriate language and terminology
An inclusive collective term for Indigenous Australians is ‘Aboriginal and/or Torres Strait Islander
peoples’. This term should always be written in its entirety, and never abbreviated ( eg, ‘ATSI’) .
If you are speaking to or about an individual, it is respectful to be as specific as possible about their
cultural identity and or language group. Ask the p erson for guidance and/or consult with local
CRICOS provider number: 00122A | RTO Code: 3046
Document: Inclusive Language Guide
Author: Student and People Equity & Inclusion Teams
Save Date: 25/05/2023
Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples. Be aware that some Indigenous Australians may be
connected with their culture but not know their specific language or cultural group due to being a
child of, or rel ated to a child of, the Stolen Generations and/or being displaced.
1.2. Acknowledge sovereignty
As yet, no treaty exists between Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Peoples and the government
of Australia. The unceded sovereignty should be acknowledged by describing the arrival of the
British and Europeans as an invasion, and the continued occupati on of the land as colonisation .
1.3. Follow RMIT Protocols
Staff organising high profile public events should organise a formal Welcome to Country. Contact the
Wurundjeri Council for events on the city, Brunswick, and Bundoora campuses.
Less formal events and gatherings should have an Acknowledgement of Country.
This is a statement that recognises the Traditional Owners of the land. An Acknowledgment is a simple way
to recognise and show respect to shared connection through place to the oldest continuing cultures on
earth. Ideally an Acknowledgement should be given any time people gather to conduct RMIT business.
1.4. Professional Development Opportunities
RMIT offers professional development sessions for staff to learn more about Aboriginal and Torres
Strait Islander Peoples, culture and heritage. Look for the learning pathway on Workday:
Reconciliation: racism and cultural safety and keep an eye on the On Country website for student
2. Cultural and Linguistic Diversity
The term culturally and linguistically diverse is a way of describing communities and individuals for
whom English is not their first language, or the language they use with their family and friends,
and/or those who have a background that is not Anglo -Saxon. We use this term to encompass the
vast diversity that exists within a community in relation to language, ethnic background, heritage,
ancestry, nationality, and culture including dress, traditions, food, art, and religion (AIA 2021).
While this termin ology is quite established from a governmental or organisational perspective, it’s
important to remember that this terminology may not resonate with all – it's best to avoid using
the acronym CALD unless you’re speaking to a specialist audience (AIA 2021).
2.1 Naming -conventions
Many naming systems around the world differ from those used in English -speaking countries. This
is important to remember when working with students and colleagues in an interpersonal setting,
but also in relation to data and records.
CRICOS provider number: 00122A | RTO Code: 3046
Document: Inclusive Language Guide
Author: Student and People Equity & Inclusion Teams
Save Date: 25/05/2023
Some examples of this may include:
• Chinese naming conventions arrange names as follows: [FAMILY NAME] [given name]. For
example, ZHANG Chen (male) and WANG Xiu (female), and there are no spaces between a
person’s family name and given name when written in Chinese characters, e.g., 张晨
• The Western concept of having a ‘first name’, ‘middle name’ and ‘family name’ is not
followed in Indonesia. Under Indonesian naming conventions, all components of a name
are considered part of a single given name that is their unique personal identifier, i.e.
SBS’s Cultural Atlas can provide detailed information of naming conventions from cult ures around
2.2 Name Pronunciation
Correctly pronouncing a person’s name is important to a sense of inclusion. To support this, staff
can now add their phonetic pronunciation to their Workday profile using Workday’s Change My
Name Pronunciation task.
View the Add your name pronunciation to your profile quick reference guide for instructions on
how to add this information to your profile. Once added, it will be visible to all Workday users.
Taking the time to learn how to pronounce a name is a subtle way of demonstrating your care and
respect for others , and acknowledging we live in a diverse world. It is good practice to respectfully
ask an individual how their name is pronounced, if in doubt.
2.3 Visibility and context
Making references to an individual’s cultural or linguistic background and/or faith is generally not
necessary within a work context. Describing a staff member as a ‘Chinese -Australian lecturer’
when not relevant to the context could have the impact of othering them, reinforcing stereotypes
and reducing an individual to one aspect of their identity and experience .
However, where it is appropriate or necessary to speak about a person’s cultural background, try
to be as specific as possible. Referring to an individual as ‘Asian’ or ‘African’ overlooks the unique
languages and cultures of many countries across these regions and continents. Remember to ask
the person how they describe their own cultural or linguistic background, and do not make
assumptions about their faith, beliefs or attitudes based on whe re they or their family members
Marketing and promotional images
While drawing unnecessary attention to individuals’ cultural backgrounds is to be avoided, it is
important that the diversity of RMIT’s staff and student population is reflect ed in marketing and
CRICOS provider number: 00122A | RTO Code: 3046
Document: Inclusive Language Guide
Author: Student and People Equity & Inclusion Teams
Save Date: 25/05/2023
promotional collateral. Images of diverse groups and individuals builds a more realistic picture of
RMIT and can help prospective staff and students feel they would be welcome here .
2.4 Stereotypes – even ‘positive’ ones – can be upsetting
‘Where are you from?’ ‘Your English is so good!’ - while these comments may seem innocent or
even complimentary, they can also feel individuals feel singled out, othered, or judged, and are
best avoided unless you know the person well. In addition, using a person’s physical appearance,
accent, or name to assume they are ‘foreign’ can lead to that person feeling set apart from their
peers. These factors are not reliable indicators of a person’s nationality or citizenship. It is
important to not assume that your colleagues, students, or peers wish to share these aspects of
their identity with you, or that they have any obligation to share this with you.
Cultural stereotyping is common and can lead to inaccurate ideas that people from particular
cultural backgrounds are not capable of taking on certain roles. Similarly, if a person makes jokes
or uses particular terms to describe their own cultural background, this does not mean they will be
comfortable with others using that language t o them or about them.
3. Disability and Accessibility
Australians with disability face some of the most significant barriers to work of all groups in the
workforce, with employment participation rates around 30.7 percentage points lower than other
Australians (Australian Network on Disability, 2019) .
Not all disabilities are visible, and not all people with a disability will be comfortable speaking
openly about it. The best strategies for inclusive communication with or about people with
disabilit y include:
• focusing on the person, not the disability
• avoiding language that implies people with disabilities are victims, or are inspirations
simply for living with disability, for example, ‘suffers from’.
• thinking about whether referring to a perso n’s disability is relevant (in most cases, it will
Below are some examples of commonly accepted language and inclusive behaviour, but you
should always defer to a person’s individual preferences where they have made these known .
3.1 Person -centred Language
A person is not defined by their disability, and it is important to use language that acknowledges
this. Describing someone as a ‘sufferer’ or ‘victim’ paints them as powerless. A good general rule is
to avoid any language that frames disability as a limitation. Some language to avoid:
• ‘Suffers from’: try ‘lives with’ or ‘has’ ( i.e., ‘Jean has cystic fibrosis’) .
CRICOS provider number: 00122A | RTO Code: 3046
Document: Inclusive Language Guide
Author: Student and People Equity & Inclusion Teams
Save Date: 25/05/2023
• ‘Disabled’ toilets or facilities: ‘accessible’ is the best term (‘ambulant’ is sometimes used
but can be problematic as it literally means ‘able to walk around’).
• ‘Wheelchair -bound’: wheelchairs liberate and enable mobility; they do not confine.
‘Wheelchair user’ is more appropriate when access needs to be highlighted .
• ‘Special’ or ‘normal’: use of thes e terms in relation or contrast to disability should be
• Don’t describe a person as ‘being’ their condition – for example, ‘Vanessa is paraplegic.’
‘Vanessa has paraplegia’ is correct. The exception is people and groups that use identity first la nguage to describe themselves, in which case you should do the same: ‘Vanessa is
People With Disability Australia has produced a useful guide to language and terminology:
https://pwd.org.au/resources/disability -info/language -guide/
3.2 Body Language and Behaviour
Always ensure that you speak directly to the person, and not to anybody else who may be
accompanying or assisting them ( e.g., interpreters).
When meeting with or speaking here are some guiding principles to consider
• somebody who uses a wheelchair, you may wish to choose a location where you can sit
down too, so that you can put yourself at the same level as the person.
• somebody who has a vision impairment, if that person has a seeing eye dog with them, do
not interact with the dog ( i.e., Patting or talking to it), this dog is working.
• someone with a hearing impairment, try not to cover your mouth when speaking with
them, it is possible they are lip reading to support their hearing ability.
To ensure easy communication consider the physical environment, is it loud? Is it busy? Are there
bright lights? If you are communicating with someone who is neurodivergent, what is being said
may not be easily understood.
If a person with a disability, especially someone who uses a wheelchair, or people who are deaf or
those with a vision impairment, it is not appropriate to touch or grab a person with the intention
of helping them. If you think someone may need assistance, ask if you can help before
4. Digital Accessibility
Inclusive communication is not just about language. It is also about the tools we use to present
information and ensurin g that the audience can access it. If you are creating digital content at
RMIT, familiarise yourself with the Digital Accessibility Framework . This covers the University’s
standards for ensuring that web content can be accessed using assistive technology (such as
screen readers), and that visual content can be perceived and understood by all visitors (via
capt ions on images, subtitles, and transcripts for videos, etc.).
CRICOS provider number: 00122A | RTO Code: 3046
Document: Inclusive Language Guide
Author: Student and People Equity & Inclusion Teams
Save Date: 25/05/2023
Simple things like ensuring text is a reasonable size and that there is a high level of contrast
between text and background can make a big difference to a person with low vision.
Vision Australia has developed a free accessibility toolbar to help you create accessible Word
documents. You can learn more about the toolbar on their website:
https://www.vis ionaustralia.org/services/digital -access/resources
4.1 On language – Person-centred language vs Identi ty-first language
What is ‘identity -first language ’?
Identity -first language puts a person’s disability identity before the person – for example, ‘disabled
person’ or ‘Autistic person ’ - instead of ‘person with autism’ or ‘Deaf ’ - instead of ‘person who is
Many people with disability prefer to use identity -first language because they see their disability
as a key part of their identity. They use identity -first language to show their connection to the
disability community, demonstrate disability pride and emphasise that it is society that is
As with many communities, language and terms can be contested and challenged, as well as
constantly changing and shifting. People with lived experience of disability, their carers and
families and disability advocacy organisations are likely to use differing language in differing
circumsta nces, with some using person -first language (e g, people with disabilities, person with
autism) and some using identity first language (e g, disabled people, autistic).
It is important to respect the language that others use to describe themselves, and bes t practice is
1. Follow the lead of the individual, so if the person is using identity first language, ask them if
this is their preference when being referred to .
2. Never assume their preference and use person -centred practices unless asked directly .
5. Gender, Sex and Sexuality
RMIT recognises and value s the diversity of its staff, students and community and commits to
ensuring people are not limited by gender stereotypes, gender roles or prejudices. Communication
plays an important role in this as language can reinforce gender bias or gender stereotypes .
Inclusive language is a way of acknowledging and respecting the diversity of bodies, genders, and
Sex, gender identity, gender expression and sexuality are all distinct characteristics, though they
are sometimes used incorrectly or interchangeably. Learn more our LGBTIQA+ Introduction
module : Click here to find out more about LGBTIQA+ Incl usive Best Practice
CRICOS provider number: 00122A | RTO Code: 3046
Document: Inclusive Language Guide
Author: Student and People Equity & Inclusion Teams
Save Date: 25/05/2023
A transgender or non -binary person (somebody who does not wholly identify as either male or
female) will use the pronouns that best reflect their gender identity (remember that this may not
be related to their biological sex).
In some cases, a person may use pronouns that are more gender neutral or that do not reference
a single gender at all (‘they’/’them’/’theirs’).
Be respectful of people’s pronouns. If in doubt, ask them privately. Pronouns might include (but
are not limited to):
• he/him/his
• she/her/hers
• they/them/theirs
Some people may use a combination of the above that affirm s their gender identity.
5.2 Acronyms and preferred language
You have probably seen variations of LGBT, GLBTI, LGBTIQ used to describe lesbian, gay, bisexual,
trans, intersex and queer people and communities. There are many arguments for and against the
use of such acronyms, but it is generally agreed that most variati ons do not represent the full
spectrum of sexuality and gender identity.
Inclusive language continues to evolve over time as people find the language that best suits their
identity and experience.
For example, some older documents use terms such as ‘sexual preference’ and ‘lifestyle choice’
when referring to the LGBTIQA+ community. This language is outdated, as it implies that there is a
choice in our identity. We can’t choose our gender identity or sexual orientation - it’s just part of
If you see the terms ‘sexual preference ’ or ‘lifestyle choice, ’ replace them with ‘sexual orientation ’
or ‘gender identity.
• Use ‘ are LGBTIQA+ ’, instead of ‘ identify as ’
• Use ‘ LGBTIQA+ communities ’, instead of ‘ community ’, as there are many with a variety of
wants, needs, and experiences, etc
• Use ‘ People of diverse genders and sexualities ’, or ‘diversity in gender and sexuality ’
instead of ‘ gender diversity and sexuality communities ’
Connect with the Ally network on yammer (for RMIT staff): Click here to join the Yammer RMIT
If you would like advice about supporting and communicating with and about LGBTIQA+ staff and
students, contact the network through the Equity and Diversity Unit email address:
inclusion@rmit.edu.au
CRICOS provider number: 00122A | RTO Code: 3046
Document: Inclusive Language Guide
Author: Student and People Equity & Inclusion Teams
Save Date: 25/05/2023
6. Resources
This guide was largely adapted (with permission) from the Diversity Council of Australia’s series of
resources, Words at Work. These materials can be accessed by all RMIT staff members.
You can create an a ccount on DCA’s website, which will give you access to a range of useful
information and research on workplace diversity and inclusion: https://www.dca.org.au/inclusive language -0
If you are keen to learn more, please feel free to continue your reading using the resources
• Words At Work : Building inclusion for people with disability through the power of language
– Diversity Council of Australia
• LGBTIQ+ Inclusive Language Guide - Victorian Government
• https://www.reconciliation.org.au/wp -content/uploads/2021/10/inclusive -and-respectful language.pdf
• https://staff.uq.edu.au/files/242/using -inclusive -language -guide.pdf
• https://www.dca.org.au/sites/default/files/dca_wordsatwork_overall_guide.pdf
• https://staff.uq.edu.au/files/242/using -inclusive -language -guide.pdf
• https://www.ucda.com/best -practices -for-inclusive -and-diverse -photography -in-higher education/
• https://www.amnesty.org. au/wp -content/uploads/2021/09/AIA -Inclusive -Language -andEvents -Guide -3.pdf
• https://www.adcet.edu.au/resources/inc lusive -communication/inclusive -language
• https://rainbowhealthaustralia.org.au/media/pages/research -resources/inclusive language -guide/2013898455 -1650953507/lbgtiq -inclusive -language -guide.pdf
• https://www.vic.gov.au/state -disability -plan/our -language/person -first-and-identity -firstlanguage
7. Contacts
For general advice on diversity and inclusion matter s (in relation to students), contact the Equity
and Inclusion team (Students Group) via email: inclusion@rmit.edu.au
For general advice on diversity and inclusion matter s (in relation to staff), contact the Equity and
Diversity team (People ) via email: diversity.inclusion@rmit.edu.au
For specialised advice on communicating with staff and students with disability, contact the
Equitable Learning Service s: els@rmit.edu.au
For specialized advice on communicating with Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander staff and
students, contact RMIT’s Ngarara Willim Centre: ngarara@rmit.edu.au
You can also read more about RMIT’s commitment to diversity and inclusion on our
website: https://www.rmit.edu.au/about/our -values/diversity -and-inclusion
CRICOS provider number: 00122A | RTO Code: 3046
Document: Inclusive Language Guide
Author: Student and People Equity & Inclusion Teams
Save Date: 25/05/2023
For guidance on delivering inclusive events please visit:
https://rmiteduau.sharepoint.com/:w:/r/sites/EquityDiversityInclusionteam/_layouts/15/Doc.aspx
8. References
• Amnesty International Australia (AIA) (2021) Inclusive Language & Events Guide , AIA,
accessed 4 August 2022.
• Australian Government (2022) Cultural and linguistic diversity , Australian Government,
accessed 16 August 2022.
• Victorian Gove rnment (2021) LGBTIQ+ Inclusive Language Guide , Victorian Government,
accessed 10 June 2022.
• With Respect (2020) Accessibility: Tip Sheet 1 , With Respect, accessed 2 June 2022.
Equity and Inclusion,
We thank RMIT staff, students, and external
organisations and contacts for their help in
developing this resource.
For feedback or to get in touch, please
email us at: inclusion@rmit.edu.au