Inclusion, Diversity, Equity
Inclusive by Design: Everyone, Everywhere, All the Time and Access Framework
RMIT University acknowledges
the people of the Woi wurrung
and Boon wurrung language
groups of the eastern Kulin
Nation on whose unceded lands
we conduct the business of the
RMIT University respectfully
acknowledges their Ancestors and
Elders, past and present.
RMIT also acknowledges the
Traditional Custodians and their
ancestors of the lands and waters
across Australia where we conduct
RMIT’s Inclusion, Diversity, Equity
and Access Framework seeks to
include and benefit from Indigenous
knowledges and perspectives in the
continued delivery and evaluation of
this plan towards 2030. Acknowledgement of Country
Our history of aspirations and achievements
in inclusion, diversity, equity and access
Pg 10-12: Development
Consultation and review that identified where
we can do better, and what we need to do to
Pg 11-28: Planning for the future:
A new model to guide our action
Our specific aspirations and priorities to achieve
‘Inclusive Excellence’
Pg 29-32: Making it happen
Planning and governance
RMIT knows that when a system
is built with inclusion in mind,
enabling practices become the
norm, and fewer barriers impede
a person's agency and ability to
We also know we still need
to address unique needs and
discrimination, and create enabling
environments for people with differing
This Inclusion, Diversity, Equity
and Access (IDEA) Framework
creates a blueprint for our continued
journey towards a more inclusive
and accessible RMIT. To achieve
our strategic aspirations, we need
to ensure that everyone is included
and enabled to thrive, whoever and
This means we need to enhance
local action across the locations and
entities of the RMIT Group, and over
the nine years of the Framework,
we aim to shape an RMIT that is:
Inclusive by design.
FrameworkOur Aim: Inclusive by Design
Vice-Chancellor’s Foreword
Inclusion is a commitment
against which we must all be held
At RMIT, inclusion is a core value. It’s at
the heart of our Knowledge with Action
strategy, and it’s integral to the way we
contribute to the communities we exist to
In developing our new Inclusion, Diversity,
Equity and Access (IDEA) Framework to
2031, we undertook community-wide
consultation. Staff, students and external
partners all had a voice in developing
the approach that will inform how we
achieve our equity, diversity and inclusion
aspirations in the years ahead.
My thanks to everyone who took part in
the consultation – because of you, we have
identified important strategies and priorities.
Building on the significant progress we’ve
already made, this new Framework groups
our aspirations into five areas of focus:
Access, participation and success: We aim
to build a more diverse student and staff
profile with equity in retention, success and
Culture, capability and leadership: We will
create an environment where all individuals
are supported, are respected, feel a sense
of belonging and have the opportunity to
thrive. ‘We must continue
to walk our talk and
lead in all aspects of
Professor Alec Cameron
RMIT Vice-Chancellor and
Education and research: We will
demonstrate best practice in inclusion,
diversity, equity and access through our
education and research.
Infrastructure, service and operations: We
will provide inclusive facilities and services,
and plan, resource and communicate our
IDEA aspirations and achievements.
Community and partnerships: We aim to
engage reciprocally and in partnership
with the communities we serve, promoting
equity, diversity, inclusion and wellbeing.
The IDEA Framework is the successor to
our Diversity and Inclusion Framework
and its related Action Plans. Its purpose
is to build an RMIT that is inclusive by
design – an accessible place of learning
and discovery where where everyone feels
included, respected and supported.
If we recognise that diversity is a strength,
then inclusivity must be fundamental. This
aspiration in mind, I invite every member
of our community to feel empowered and
to continue to work with me towards a
genuinely equitable RMIT.
Vice-Chancellor and President
RMIT strategy: ‘Knowledge with Action’
The IDEA Framework is an
important part of achieving
the goals of the RMIT strategy
‘Knowledge With Action’.
Our RMIT Group strategy, ‘Knowledge
with Action’ builds on RMIT’s strengths
and values. It brings together what
we have learned from the experience
of recent years, with our ambitions
for accessible lifelong education,
impactful research and innovation, and
an inclusive, sustainable future for the
communities we serve.
Our goals at RMIT are ambitious and
require new ways of thinking, being and
doing. We know that if we only have
some of our community contributing,
we will not achieve our strategic aims.
For our strategy to be successful,
we need full participation of our
community, students, staff, alumni and
partners. We need inclusion, diversity,
equity and access to be a real and
consistent experience for everyone to
achieve excellence. Vision
To be a leading university of impact in the Asia Pacific
region, using technology, design and enterprise to achieve
an inclusive and sustainable future. RMIT is an international
university of technology,
design and enterprise.
To empower people and communities to adapt and thrive
across generations with education, research and civic
engagement that are applied, inclusive and impactful.
To lead internationally in four key areas: emerging
technologies, smart and sustainable cities, social innovation
and regional collaboration. Our values
Our values are the durrung (heart) of
who we are and what we stand for at
RMIT. They guide what we do, how we
make decisions, and how we treat each
• Inclusion
• Courage
• Imagination
Our value of inclusion at RMIT
We work to grow opportunity and
participation. We welcome students
and staff from diverse backgrounds,
embrace differences and treat people
with dignity and respect.
We ensure RMIT is an accessible and
open institution, dedicated to serving
the needs of the whole community.• Impact
• Integrity
• Passion
8A history of achievement
RMIT has a long and proud history of commitments and action to
ensure that opportunities to develop and succeed are open to all.
Drawing on our longstanding commitment
to inclusion, the 2016 RMIT Diversity
and Inclusion Framework and related
Action Plans outlined the University’s key
commitments to build a more diverse
community and ensure inclusive and
equitable experiences and outcomes, with
priority for the following:
• Accessibility (people with disability)
• Cultural, linguistic and religious
• LGBTIQA+
• Gender equality
• Students from low-socioeconomic
Since then, RMIT has made significant
progress, with improvements in the diversity
of representation in our student and staff
community and in their experience and
We have also been recognised as a leader
for our commitments and achievements
as measured by our performance in
several rigorous national and international
benchmarking schemes.
In alignment with the RMIT
Knowledge with Action strategy, we
need to consider how we are living
up to our value of inclusion across
the RMIT Group, where we are doing
well, where we need to improve,
what we need to do to get there, and
what emerging issues we are yet to
address. Adopting an intersectional
lens will greatly support this work.
After extensive consultation
and engagement, this Inclusion,
Diversity, Equity and Access (IDEA)
Framework aims to guide a wholeof-institution approach to achieve our
new aspirations and drive effective
At the heart of how we live our
values, including the RMIT value
of inclusion, is our commitment to
a just and meaningful relationship
between Indigenous communities
and the RMIT community.
We acknowledge that RMIT was
established, and continues to operate, as
a colonial institution on Aboriginal country
in its Australian locations.
• Responsible Practice is about behaving in a fair, honest and ethical manner in
all our activities and relationships, respecting Indigenous populations across the
globe and in the locations RMIT operates.
• This involves recognising, interpreting, and acting upon multiple principles and
values including reconciliation, cultural safety, ethical responsibility, diversity and
inclusion, among others.
• It also means being conscious of and working to address the power dynamics,
biases, and prejudices at play in our own and other’s behaviours and that are
embedded structurally within the RMIT Group and across society more broadly.
• Responsible practice is therefore about working continually and with great focus
to enliven these principles and values in our day-to-day as part of who we are,
not as separate or standalone activities and behaviours that we engage with at
specific times or in certain contexts.
• The commitment to responsible practice informs this Framework and its
implementation. Adopting ‘Responsible Practice’ to guide us in
reconciliation, equity, diversity and inclusion
The RMIT strategy ‘Knowledge with
Action’ commits to our strategic
transition as an RMIT community from
Reconciliation to Responsible Practice.
This transition reflects the growth in our
maturity in this space through our shared
reconciliation journey over the past six
Responding to our whole community:
An intersectional approach
Intersectionality, coined by
Dr Kimberle Crenshaw when
considering the experience of Black
women in the US justice system, is
a framework for understanding how
systems of oppression overlap and
impact people in complex ways.
Historically, diversity and inclusion work
has been approached in silos based
on a particular identity, community, or
lived experience. While much progress
has been made, this approach has
left many to fall through the cracks particularly for those whose experience
cannot be narrowly described through
the lens of one identity or community.
Intersectionality exposes the
conceptual limitations of single-issue
analysis and encourages us to consider
the ways that discriminatory practices
may overlap and compound for
some, for example, women of colour,
LGBTIQA+ neurodivergent people,
migrants living regionally. Examples from our students
"In terms of academics and study, my
disabilities are well catered for and
understood by all of my professors. I
have never been judged for needing
extensions on most assessments; in
fact, they reassured me that taking
the extensions was the right thing to
do. However, in terms of social life at
RMIT, I do feel a bit left out because of
my disabilities and location [Regional
"It's not only male teachers who judge
you. In my second year my female
teacher said, people like you with
the hijab, do you want yourself to be
escorted to the side...".
"My observation has been that gender
discrimination at RMIT is exacerbated
with age, which creates more barriers". "...if we can't see a
Dr Kimberlé Crenshaw
In this sense, it encourages us to
interrogate the ways that our policies,
procedures, and programs may not
consider the complexity of student and
staff experiences and may only benefit
some of our community. This does not
mean forgetting about people's unique
needs, but rather provides a way to
ensure that the whole community is
considered and supported.
12Consultation and review to guide our
insights and planning
The voices of our learners and staff were critical in shaping an
Inclusion, Diversity, Equity and Access Framework that serves
Consultation sought to gain insight
into what RMIT is doing well, where
we still need to improve, and what we
need to do to get there. Grounded in
principles of inclusion and accessibility,
consultation included listening groups,
roving polls, online surveys, and 1:1
Consultation, engagement and
playback sessions were undertaken
with working groups, operational
units, committees, leaders and leading
external organisations.
We considered both quantitative
and qualitative data, looking at the
representation, experience and
outcomes for diverse learners and staff
We reviewed our performance
against several rigorous national and
international benchmarking schemes to
identify gaps and opportunities. We considered the requirements
of relevant legislation, policy and
regulation, and drew on research and
practice insights, including from our
While we were able to capture a broad
range of voices, lived experience and
perspectives through consultation and
the development of this Framework,
we know that we did not hear from
We acknowledge and respect our
expansive communities and recognise
that knowledges and languages
continue to grow and evolve, allowing
for future voices to be represented over
Issues and challenges will continue to
emerge. Seeking to understand and
respond to the diversity of identities
and experiences within our community
is an ongoing process.
Shaping the Future of
Inclusion at RMITLived Experience
One on One consultation
ExpertsLegislative and
BenchmarkingResearch Data
Planning for the future
Towards a new approach: ‘Inclusive
Meaningful engagement and targeted
initiatives on inclusion, diversity, equity
and access have been a critical part of our
success so far and will continue to be an
important part of what we do. Alongside
this, we know that to level up, we must
build these into the core of what we do.
The ‘Inclusive Excellence’ * model was developed
in response to calls to connect educational
quality and inclusion efforts. In this model, what
a university does to ensure inclusion, diversity,
equity and access is critical to its capacity to
achieve excellence in its teaching, research, and
engagement. It is focussed on embedding insight
and action across the institution, and on developing
more inclusive and equitable cultures, systems and
Consultation, analysis and drafting have been
framed around the domains of this Inclusive and
Excellence model. Access,
PartnershipsCulture,
OperationsEducation and
* https://www.clemson.edu/otei/documents/AACU%20
InclusiveA%20Excellence%20Framework.pdfInclusive Excellence link:
15Some key insights to shape the future
• Previous plans and actions that focussed
on issues and individual identities (such
as gender or disability) served us well.
However, these did not always consider
the multifaceted intersecting identities
of our community , which require a more
• The diversity of our learners and staff
needs to better reflect the broader
population in the communities we
serve, particularly when we consider
distribution across our disciplines, our
work roles, and in progression through
RMIT to higher qualifications, equitable
employment outcomes, and leadership.
• Our students and staff want to see
visible diverse role models, to believe
that they can stay, succeed and progress.
• They also want us to make sure that
everyone who comes to RMIT is aware
of our value of inclusion, that we are
working to identify and address
structural and systemic barriers and
inequities, and their drivers, and that
we support all staff and students to
develop their inclusive practice.
• Because we have not always considered
the needs across our diverse
community when we are planning new • There are great teams, leaders, and
practices everywhere. We have effective
programs on related significant issues
such as sustainability, sexual harm,
health safety and wellbeing, and gender
equity, such as through the Athena SWAN
• We should be proud of these
achievements, and of the shared RMIT
value of inclusion and the benefits for
retention and success, innovation and
creativity - but we need to understand the
ways in which we are not ‘living up to the
promise’ for everyone in our community. programs, policies, or services, not all
staff and learners can participate equitably
from day one, so we undertake costly
and inefficient remediation or individual
provision to ‘make things work’ for
• There is an opportunity for us to commit
to designing for universal provision for
all people, personalised where needed
to support the ways individuals learn and
These insights have informed the
development of this Framework
FrameworkWe are recognised as a leader in
diversity and inclusion for our
years of action and achievement
Guiding principles to inform our
aspirations and actions
This Framework builds on a foundation of inclusion, with existing policies and processes that have fostered inclusion and built our capability in IDEA
at RMIT. Recognising this, the principles below will further elevate our IDEA maturity across RMIT Group, ensuring consistent inclusive experiences
across campuses, colleges, portfolios and entities.
These five principles underpin the aspirations and priority actions identified throughout the Framework:
drive an intersectional
whole-of-institution
approach, sharing and
celebrating our good
practice and aligning
aspirations. Intersectional FlexibilityResponsible
and environments are
built for the diversity
they are usable by all
people underpins our
‘inclusive by design’.We commit to recognising,
acting upon multiple
principles and values
including reconciliation,
cultural safety, ethical
responsibility, diversity
and inclusion, in all our
activities and relationships.Local leadership and
continued insight and
action on inclusion,
diversity, equity and
locations and operations
in the RMIT Group. Having the flexibility to
needs and priorities
will be essential to our
inclusive by design for
everyone, everywhere,
17Our aspirations for inclusion, diversity,
1. Access, Participation and Success
A more diverse learner and staff profile with equity in retention, success
2. Culture, Capability and Leadership
An environment where all individuals are supported, are respected, feel a
sense of belonging and are thriving.
3. Education and Research
Education and research that demonstrate best practice in inclusion,
diversity, equity and access.
4. Infrastructure, Services and Operations
Inclusive facilities, tools and services. Planning, resourcing and
communicating our IDEA aspirations and achievements.
5. Community and Partnerships
We engage reciprocally and in partnership with the communities we
serve, promoting inclusion, diversity, equity and access.
The following pages further articulate RMIT’s IDEA Framework, including our aspirations
and priorities for action under each of the five domains of Inclusive Excellence. Inclusive by Design: Everyone, Everywhere, All the time.
This Framework sets out five domains of Inclusive Excellence:
Frameworkequity and access for 2031
Access, Participation and Success
The Access, Participation and Success domain focusses on continuing to build the
diversity of our student and staff profile, ensuring all can participate and thrive in
learning through life and work and in fulfilling careers.
It includes the actions we take to attract and recruit diverse staff and learners, especially for groups that
remain under-represented. It includes what we do to ensure successful transition, development and
progression through RMIT.
This means ensuring that our mainstream policies, provisions and services are responsive to diversity,
and that we also develop and deliver targeted initiatives for particular groups where needed.
The diversity of our student and staff profile does
not yet match the communities we serve, particularly
when we consider distribution across our disciplines
Women in STEMM, people with disability, and
low socioeconomic and regional students remain
under-represented. There remain challenges
with retention, success and progression, with
employment outcomes for students from some of
these groups being below the RMIT average, and a
lack of diversity in RMIT staff leadership identified.
When considering what causes these issues and
how to take action, compounding intersectional
barriers factor into these inequities, requiring a
holistic approach. Our Aspirations
1. We empower all learners and staff to pursue
learning through life and work and fulfilling
2. We are a diverse community and enable equity
in retention, success and outcomes for staff and
3. All RMIT students will thrive and succeed in
their education, enabled through personalised
student experiences and services delivered at
4. We are a leader in employability and strive to
achieve parity in employment outcomes for all
5. We provide equitable access to career
development and progression opportunities for
staff. Flexible, personalised adjustments and supports
(such as for disability among our staff and
learners) have a positive impact, however it was
noted these provisions are not implemented
Learners cited finance, time, travel, and RMIT
processes and systems as the main challenges
for their participation in learning at RMIT and in
industry. Staff raised concerns about inequitable
workload allocations along with access to career
pathways and developmental opportunities.
Our priorities for action (learner focus):
• Inform aspiration towards education
for under-represented groups
through outreach and engagement
opportunities, services and supports,
including career and program advice.
• Value diverse students’ potential,
agency and capability for success
through inclusive admissions including
equity access schemes, alternative
selection criteria, and recognition of
• Facilitate successful student transition
by outreach contact, mentoring, career
and academic advice, counselling, and
• Support learning skills development
with the provision of resources and
professional services and advice.
• Build students’ financial capability
and provide financial supports for
participation, targeting students in
• Analyse and address the barriers
to progression and completion in
learning, considering the distribution of
students across disciplines, program
levels, research and developmental
opportunities. “I think there needs
to be more financial
support for students
internships. I can't
much time off work. ”
(RMIT Learner) • Enhance career and employability
services and opportunities for target
priority cohorts that have worse
employment outcomes.
• Ensure equitable participation in
industry-based learning for diverse
learners with individual adjustments
where needed, engaging with
industry to enhance diverse graduate
Access, Participation and Success
Our priorities for action (staff focus):
• Ensure equitable access to career
development and progression
opportunities through all career stages
(international conference attendance,
visibility in talent mapping).
• Develop and implement a compelling
Employee Value Proposition that
speaks to our values, promotes our
commitment to inclusion, attracts and
retains diverse people, and reinforces
our culture of care.
• Review performance frameworks to
ensure a focus on career and personal
development (considering flexibility,
accessibility, professional development,
workload, wellbeing, and engagement)
that recognises individual’s needs,
barriers, and aspirations.
• Undertake an end-to-end review of the
onboarding process from point of hire,
to end of probationary period through
the lens of universal inclusive design.
Implement identified improvements. “It is not managers
necessarily creating
being supportive; they
(including mine) are. It
is the system that lacks
flexibility in academic
careers and workloads”
(Staff member) • Leverage inclusive hiring practices
(Special Measures, Achievement
Relative to Opportunity and
targeted/identified roles) to increase
workforce diversity in areas of
underrepresentation.
• Enable people facing systemic and/or
personal barriers/societal expectations
(i.e., parents and carers) to fully
participate and experience success
at RMIT by implementing adequate
individual and team support, training
and tailored initiatives.
• Explore and expand opportunities to
partner with community organisations
and continue participation in diversity
employment and mentoring programs
such as the ‘Stepping Into’ and ‘PACE’
programs for people with disability and
‘Out for Australia’ mentoring for early
Access, Participation and Success
The Culture, Capability and Leadership domain focuses on core enablers of inclusion. It
recognises that the visible artefacts, the values, beliefs and behaviour, and the implicit
assumptions and norms we adopt at RMIT will shape inclusion and belonging.
This domain also recognises the critical roles leaders at all levels play in setting the tone and in modelling inclusion. It
acknowledges that creating inclusive cultures requires a commitment to ongoing learning, continuous improvement and
capability uplift – both as individuals and as an organisation.
Legislation, our students, current and prospective
employees are all demanding a proactive approach to
ensuring inclusive learning and working environments
and services. Our students, staff and external research
reinforced the importance of leadership at all levels
having a deliberate focus on culture.
Learners and staff consistently expressed a need to
develop the capability of the RMIT community to work
in diverse environments and create inclusive cultures.
While for many, RMIT represents a place where our
students and staff could be their 'whole selves,' this was
not consistent. Increasing visible role models at all levels
of leadership was identified as a key action that would
increase belonging for both learners and staff.
Microaggressions and unconscious biases impact
belonging and inclusion for people with diverse
backgrounds, orientations, cultures, religions and Culture, Capability and Leadership
identities. This theme emerged during consultation with
women in male-dominated fields, older (50+) women,
carers, people who are gender diverse, people with
disability and people who are neurodiverse, and has
been a recurring theme across all facets of identity and
diversity. It was particularly prevalent in conversations
regarding cultural inclusion and racism.
Actively challenging assumptions and norms, and an
active commitment to antiracism, while eliminating all
forms of discrimination, are crucial to embedding a
culture where everyone can thrive.
Challenging cultures and systems built on colonial
foundations is essential to creating an RMIT group that
is inclusive by design. It requires all leaders to challenge
ingrained structures, and to commit to self reflection,
continual learning and understanding different ways of
being and doing. Our Aspirations
1. Inclusion and belonging are core to
our identity at RMIT. All members of
the student and staff community play
an active role in inclusion. Our culture
creates an environment where all
individuals are respected, experience
safety and belonging, and are thriving.
2. Our leaders and decision makers are
highly skilled and inclusive with diverse
backgrounds and perspectives who are
committed to reflecting and advancing
the communities we serve.
3. Our community of leaders, learners and
staff are empowered to develop and
apply best practice in inclusion, diversity,
Our priorities for action:
• Embed IDEA capability and
accountabilities in all student and staff
leadership roles and development
programs. Develop and deliver a
suite of capability uplift initiatives
that address existing and emerging
capability needs of leaders, students
and staff, and empower action in
• Increase the number, diversity and
visibility of diverse role models at
various stages of progression and
• Identify and eliminate unique, systemic
and/or intersectional barriers for staff
and learners accessing leadership
opportunities at all levels creating
pathways for diverse staff and students
to take on leadership roles.
• Support the creation and sustainability
of dedicated staff and student networks
to progress advocacy and/or creating
belonging in interest areas or identities/
orientations (eg cultural inclusion,
gender, women of colour, disability/
accessibility) “Differences in
styles of leadership. ”
(Staff member) • Proactively build cultures of inclusion
that challenge colonial structures and
• Build on current programs to prevent
and respond to inappropriate
behaviours, discrimination and
harassment and microaggressions,
• partnerships to implement
approaches to active bystander
action, antiracism and civility,
• reinforcing positive approaches to
addressing unconscious biases
• improving support, complaints and
reporting processes.
• Continue to challenge stereotypes and
gendered norms and roles in education
and work, with a view to addressing
resistance and backlash and building
equitable systems and structures that
enable all RMIT learners and staff to
thrive. • Ensure equitable access to,
and participation in professional
development, career opportunities
and events of significance for people
of all backgrounds, cultures, religions,
abilities and orientations.
• Empower teams, individuals and
networks to affirm and celebrate
diversity, including celebrating days of
Culture, Capability and Leadership
Education and Research
The Education and Research domain ensures that inclusion is part of everything we teach
and research. It builds students and graduates who consider alternative perspectives and
are well equipped to take inclusive practice into the communities they live and work.
Like the Culture, Capability and Leadership domain, Education and Research builds the capacity of the
RMIT community to apply inclusive practice. The distinction is that Education and Research focuses on
shifting pedagogical approaches to teaching and embedding diverse perspectives and experiences into
curriculum and research.
The RMIT community provided examples of good
practice in education and research, while highlighting
the need for greater consistency across RMIT along
with other opportunities for improvement.
There was a clear call to action for more consistent
and frequent development on the principles and
practice of equity, diversity and inclusion and how
to work with diverse cohorts of learners. There were
positive examples of educators facilitating inclusive
environments, with opportunities to share further the
current good practice.
There is a continued need to design our curriculum,
learning resources, pedagogy and assessment for
inclusion and accessibility for all. Learners also made a strong call for embedding First Nations and other
diverse perspectives in curriculum, and for inclusion,
diversity, equity and access content to be embedded.
Educators shared challenges in embedding inclusive
practices and implementing Equitable Learning Plans.
Researchers highlighted barriers to progression
and the need for continued attention to diverse
representation in research including teams, events
and conferences. They also pointed to concerns about
biases and workload distribution, describing how these
disproportionately impact some people. Our Aspirations
1. Our programs, curriculum, pedagogy, and
delivery are inspiring, inclusive, accessible,
2. Equity and inclusion principles and
practices, and First Nations knowledges,
are embedded into the curriculum, valuing
diversity of thought, perspectives, and
3. RMIT learners and staff are culturally
intelligent Ethical Global Citizens who can
lead and apply best practice in inclusion,
diversity, equity and access across all
disciplines and vocations.
4. RMIT researchers are internationallyrecognised trailblazers in research on
inclusion, diversity, equity and access
matters, and in research with, about and for
the diverse communities we serve.
Our priorities for action:
• Continue to develop the capability
of our community of leaders,
students, and staff so they are
empowered to develop and apply
best practice in inclusion, diversity,
• Embed the ability to understand
and apply concepts of universal
design, accessibility, and inclusive
practice as a graduate capability.
• Continue to build upon inclusive,
accessible, and flexible program
and course design and pedagogies
so that all can participate from day
one, and provide personalised
adjustments, services and support
for individual students where
• When policies, programs and
services that have a significant
impact on students are being
developed or reviewed, consider
how they will meet the needs of
different students, and design or
change for improvements where
needed. "Amplifications of
and perspectives and
into curriculum (are
culturally responsive
environments for all
(Student) • Support educators in inclusive
teaching practice and including
diverse perspectives in curriculum,
through capability development,
sharing their best practice and the
provision of resources.
• Unite and amplify diverse researcher
and educator profiles and support
them to engage with topics of
inclusion, diversity, equity and access
across disciplines and vocations.
• Apply and share best practice in
research about and with diverse
communities, valuing lived and
learned experience and community
• Amplify research and research
practice that advances social impact,
inclusion and equity outcomes to
influence and support industry,
government and communities. Education and Research
Infrastructure, Services and Operations
The Infrastructure, Services and Operations domain focuses on our physical, digital and
cultural environments, tools and services and how these enable inclusion at RMIT. It is
about demonstrating inclusion and welcome, while providing practical provision fo r our
diverse community in our campus facilities, our digital tools and systems, and in our
communications and operations.
It highlights the importance of planning, resourcing, evaluation and communications, and the ways
in which each of these respectively, and together, support inclusion, diversity, equity and access.
There was a generally positive response
from students about built environments at
RMIT campuses. It was noted, however, that
accessibility and ease of use of physical and
digital facilities at RMIT were still identified as a
barrier to full participation by both students and
There was strong demand from students and
staff to design for universal participation by
people of diverse needs and circumstances
as a means for overcoming these barriers
and ensuring access for all. This feedback
is congruent with best practice, noting that
considering diverse needs in design not only
ensures inclusion, but is far more cost effective
and less inconvenient and stigmatising for
individuals than making adjustments afterwards. Our community of learners and students are
both aware of, and positive about, the work
being undertaken and the progress being made,
however there is a need to continue to further
promote diverse voices and signal welcome,
inclusion and our pride in the richness of our
Through consultation and research, we know that
our systems, structures and support services are
built on colonial foundations that have created
and continue to reinforce systemic barriers.
These need to be addressed in our planning,
resourcing, evaluation, physical and digital
spaces, policies, processes and procedures. Our Aspirations
1. RMIT is ‘inclusive by design’.
2. All RMIT physical, digital and
cultural environments are inclusive,
accessible and safe.
3. We use evidence and evaluation to
continuously improve our practice.
4. RMIT applies a lens of inclusion,
diversity, equity and access to
assess the impact of strategic and
operational priorities, planning
and investment decisions, and
leverages its buying power to drive
inclusion and positive community
Our priorities for action:
• Embed universal design across the
RMIT Group, with an initial focus on
the built environment, digital tools
and platforms, communications,
policies and processes, and
curriculum and pedagogy.
• Eliminate barriers to accessing
information, services and
resources. Continue to
communicate resources and
services and monitor usage.
• Implement services and initiatives
to enhance wellbeing, retention,
success, and participation in the
life of the RMIT community, using
data and analytics to provide
personalised services that affirm
• Review and update workplace and
learning adjustment processes
in line with current best practice, “We need to make
considered; this goes
(RMIT Staff) with adequate knowledge and
resourcing for staff and learners to
seek advice and support.
• Embed Indigenous perspectives
and cultural safety requirements
into our systems procurement,
requirements gathering, tendering
and implementation processes.
• Continue work to improve reporting,
support and complaints processes,
including alternative avenues for
raising concerns, with improved
communication to staff and learners
about how to resolve or report
inappropriate behaviours.
• Progress a data improvement
project to enable accurate and
fulsome data collection with robust
reporting capability providing quality
insights to inform analysis and
action on inclusion, diversity, equity and access. This must include
hearing from our community and
responding to emerging issues.
• Implement and embed an
institutional governance model
to support the implementation
of this Framework across
the RMIT Group, supported
by reporting and evaluation,
intersectional frameworks, and
the operationalisation of principles
to ensure the Framework and
associated plans are responsive
• Regularly review and amend the
model to reflect ongoing maturity
and progress towards embedding
action at the local level.Infrastructure, Services and Operations
Community and Partnerships
The Community and Partnerships domain considers how others contribute to our
knowledge and success in relation to inclusion, diversity, equity and access, and how
It considers the ways we can have a positive impact in the communities we serve, sharing our
resources and expertise and learning from others.
What we learned: Our Aspirations
1. We live up to our ambition to make
a positive societal difference in the
communities where we are located.
2. We seek to be a source of good practice
in inclusion, diversity, equity and access
and to address our mission to the
broader community through a positive
influence on public policy, academic
practice and broader societal debate
3. RMIT partners with industry,
communities and community
organisations to identify and overcome
needs and challenges and to engender
a more inclusive society.
27Recognising our position as a leading
organisation, there is an expectation that RMIT
will demonstrate leadership and public advocacy
in support of inclusion and diversity, particularly
concerning marginalised communities or related
We can also influence broader societal
outcomes through our purchasing power and by
the standards we expect of organisations that
host our students and researchers.
Partnering with organisations can reinforce or
diminish safety and inclusion among RMIT staff
and learners, and the communities we serve, so
we need to carefully consider who we ‘go into
business’ with. RMIT partners with a number of organisations
to provide specialist advice, resources and
services for its students and staff, for example
in relation to groups such as people seeking
We are also called upon to share our wonderful
campus facilities, our research and practice
insights with other organisations with similar
aspirations towards greater social inclusion and
We also have wonderful campus facilities that
we make available to community organisations
that empower and advocate.
Our priorities for action:
• Expand and deepen new and
existing relationships with
people who have diverse lived
experience as well as specialist
community organisations,
government, universities (local
and international), research
institutes and industry in support
of our aspirations and actions
for enhanced inclusion, diversity,
equity and access at RMIT.
• Share our research, resources,
facilities, knowledge, and
practices beyond the RMIT
doors in ways that serve the
communities where we operate,
and that contribute to broader
and sustained social inclusion
and equity, recognising that we
can learn from others.
• Enhance RMIT Group’s
approach to serving our
communities, with a view to ensuring RMIT partners with
organisations with similar values
and practices, with evidence of
their capacity to provide safe
and inclusive environments and
• Engage with and influence
industry on the benefits and
practices of inclusive recruitment
• Empower and support RMIT
leaders, students and staff to
take action in support of social
inclusion and equity in the broader
community, through public
advocacy or other contributions
including volunteering. Community and Partnerships
supporting/utilising
tackle diversity and
inclusion challenges. ”
30Evaluating our impact
Evaluating our impact will involve assessing our position as a leader in inclusion, diversity, equity and access against external
benchmarks and peak body research, identifying and measuring learner and workforce demographics against comparative populations
and analysing qualitative and quantitative feedback to ensure accountability and delivery of the Framework.
This evaluation area means: Example indicators for monitoring progress include:
areWe aim to understand the diversity of our learner and staff profile and to measure representation, retention, progression, and outcomes for priority groups. Where relevant, we will compare data for priority groups to a relevant comparator population such as all students or all staff, with a view to moving towards parity over the course of the Framework.•
• • Staff recruitment outcomes for priority diversity
groups, where relevant by work role, or level
Numbers of applications and enrolments from our
student equity access schemes
Access rates of commencing students from
• Representation of diverse identities and
backgrounds in student and staff leadership roles
Distribution of students and staff across
disciplines, including those in which certain groups are traditionally under-represented (such as women in STEMM)
RMITUnderstanding how our learners and staff experience the culture
and navigate the systems, tools, and structures at RMIT will indicate progress towards an RMIT that is ‘inclusive by design’. We expect that this will be reflected in qualitative and qualitative data across all demographics, comparing outcomes for the priority diversity cohorts to other cohorts of learners or staff to identify gaps.
Our goal is an RMIT Group where all individuals are supported,
respected, feel a sense of belonging and are thriving with the tools, facilities, support and development they need to succeed. •
• Staff engagement survey: identifying differences
in the scores and qualitative feedback of staff across backgrounds, abilities, orientations and identities including their intention to stay at RMIT and perceptions of career development opportunities
Mental Health and Wellbeing Survey:
identifying mental wellbeing indicators and psychosocial safety risks that are exacerbated or disproportionate for staff and/or students across diverse backgrounds. orientations, identities and abilities •
• Evaluative measures of teaching, learning, and
the student experience, as in student survey responses on ‘overall satisfaction’ and the ‘Good Teaching’ score
Number of student equitable learning plans
containing recommended reasonable adjustments for students with disabilities
Student participation in developmental programs
and services and work integrated learning
Retention of priority student cohorts
influenceWe aim for parity in completion and graduate outcomes for our
students, and in career progression and recognition for our staff. This requires inclusive programs, curriculum, pedagogy, and delivery that are inspiring, accessible, and flexible for our students. For our staff, this means ensuring access to developmental and higher-level opportunities.
RMIT’s ambition is to make a positive societal difference in the communities where we are located. Understanding the nature and scale of our impact will inform how we continue to contribute to a more inclusive community, wherever we operate.•
• • Outcomes for priority student cohorts including
courses passed, retention, and program completion
Graduate outcomes (such as graduates in
employment or further study) for priority cohorts
Staff and student access and participation in
events, professional development opportunities, resources and guidance materials
Research outputs related to Sustainable Development Goals
Social procurement outcomes and panel
• Academic promotion among priority cohorts: rates
of application and success
Internal mobility (workforce demographics)
– internal recruitment rates, short term opportunities such as secondments and higher duties appointments, appointments to higher level roles.
Evaluative frameworks for industry partnerships and projects
Driving local action and
international impact
Achievement of our aspirations requires a whole-of-RMIT approach. Alongside existing planning and implementation mechanisms across our
operations and locations, our diversity-focused networks, committees and working groups support the implementation of this Framework. Their
roles are outlined below:
Identity and issue-based
RMIT has active learner
and staff networks based
on issues and identities.
These provide a forum for
peer support, and to discuss
common experiences or
concerns, which may be
referred to the Forum or the
Advisory Committee. All locations and
RMIT has many existing
planning and implementation
mechanisms such as working
groups and committees at the
We aim to ensure efficiency
by utilising these existing
mechanisms wherever possible,
with agenda items reflecting an
IDEA focus. Brings together key people
from networks, working
groups and aligned projects,
to share progress and
knowledge, raise concerns
and focus on professional
development. Advisory
Endorse, approve and
champion IDEA initiatives.
Members will have an initial
responsibility to activate and
support local action.
Provides a pathway to other
Committees, Academic Board
32Driving local action and
international impact (cont.)
Over the life of the Framework, reflecting
our aspiration towards ‘Inclusive by
design: Everyone, everywhere, all the
time’, planning resourcing and governance
will be embedded into standing
mechanisms at the local level, with wholeof-Group oversight and evaluation.
Through our planning and implementation
structures and processes we aim to:
• Drive local area action, aligned with this
Framework’s aspirations and action areas
• Hear the voices of people with diverse lived
• Enable collaboration and knowledge
sharing, efficient and effective planning and
implementation, supported by technology
• Link or integrate related agendas and
programs of work, improving impact and
minimising duplication