Equitable Learning Services
Your guide to our processes
RMIT University | Equitable Learning Services | Your guide to our processesAfter your first meeting with
Equitable Learning Services, what’s next?
It is our responsibility to:
■send your Equitable Learning Plan to your school
(you will also receive a copy)
■communicate your Equitable Adjustment Arrangements to Exams, Awards and Graduations
■contact your teachers (only if this is agreed in our
■refer you on to other student services (only if this is
agreed in our meeting)
It is your responsibility to:
■read and understand your Equitable Learning Plan
■speak with your teachers about your Equitable
Learning Plan and provide them a copy,
■check your student email account regularly as this
is how we will contact you
■reply to any emails sent by us regarding your Equitable Learning Plan
■if applicable, complete and return the online booking form for Enabling Assistance (Note Taker,
Participation Assistant and Auslan Interpreter) to us
at least one week before you need it
■if applicable, refer to the Enabling Assistance Student Handbook for the cancellation policy for
Enabling Assistance1
RMIT University | Equitable Learning Services | Your guide to our processesFrequently Asked Questions
How do I ask for an extension?
When you have an Equitable Adjustment
Arrangement for extensions please speak with the relevant staff member and let them know. It is possible to ask for an extension that exceeds
seven days. You cannot ask for an extension for an
assessment when the due date has passed.
My school has asked me to fill out a form when
requesting an extension. Do I need to do this?
Each school has a different process. If your school
requires you to fill out a form, your Equitable Learning
Plan is the only ‘medical’ evidence that you need to provide.
My academic has directed me to apply for
special consideration even though I have
an Equitable Adjustment Arrangement for
extensions. What do I do?
For your first extension you do not need to go
through the special consideration application process.
If you require a second extension on the same piece of work you will need to apply through special
consideration. You should direct the academic to your
Equitable Learning Plan or contact Equitable Learning Services for advice.
Special consideration
When else might special consideration be relevant to me?
If you experience a circumstance outside the primary
reason for registering with Equitable Learning Services (for example you missed assessments
because of a family member’s funeral), the Equitable
Learning Plan does not apply and the correct process is to follow special consideration. Please visit www.
rmit.edu.au/students/specialconsideration for more
RMIT University | Equitable Learning Services | Your guide to our processesExam arrangements
When and how do I know about my exam
Close to your exam period you will receive an email
from Exams, Awards and Graduations. This email will have the details of your Equitable Adjustment
Arrangements and your exam location/s.
My exams are run through my school. Who
puts my Equitable Adjustment Arrangements in
Your school is responsible for in-class tests and
exams. You will need to speak with your academics/
teachers leading up to the in-class tests or school run exams to ensure your Equitable Adjustment
Arrangements are put in place.
Do my Equitable Adjustment Arrangements
apply for online tests and/or practicals?
Yes, your Equitable Adjustment Arrangements will
apply for all your exams including online tests and
Communicating with academics
I have requested an extension via email and
haven’t had a response. What do I do?
Keep trying! If you have tried to contact your
academics/ teachers a few times and haven’t had
a response, then please contact Equitable Learning Services.
Is my disability kept confidential?
When registering with Equitable Learning Services
you are asked to sign a confidentiality form that
allows Equitable Learning Services staff to access
your supporting documentation. This information is not available to your school or other departments
unless you choose to disclose it.Frequently Asked Questions 3
RMIT University | Equitable Learning Services | Your guide to our processesRemember to:
Check your RMIT student email at least twice a week.
■Use the support available
Use the Study and Learning Centre for free study
support and advice www.rmit.edu.au/students/
studysupport/study-and-learning-centre
■Look after yourself
Use the RMIT counselling service to talk and deal with
personal issues and mental health www.rmit.edu.au/counselling
Ask for help before your situation becomes urgent.
Use and refer to your Equitable Learning Plan.
Our Equitable Adjustment Advisors are here to
For up-to-date information please visit
www.rmit.edu.au/equitable
Do you have questions or do you require in-depth help? Contact RMIT Connect by phone, or visit our
website for more information or to book a face-toface appointment.
Tel: +61 3 9925 5000
Equitable Learning Services
www.rmit.edu.au/equitable4