Top Ten Tips to be an
GuideEffective Rainbow Ally
to yourselfWe can’t tell someone is trans by looking at them. This supports the
idea that trans people need to look a certain way t o ‘pass’ or to
validate their trans identity . The important thing to remember is that
each person is uniquely trans and gender diverse in their own way.
Often ‘coming out’ as trans is a very di ﬀerent experience compared to
‘coming out’ as lesbian, gay or bisexual. Where ‘coming out’ in terms
of sexuality can be incredibly empowering for some members of the
community, unfortunately the same cannot be said for a trans person
when disclosing their trans history. Due to the society we live in,
knowledge of our trans history can impact how we are treated by
others. Respect that everyone’s story is their own to share.
Don’t ask about our bodies, whether we’ve had surgery
or if we’re taking hormone replacement therapy.
Aﬃrming gender is not a linear process that starts or
stops at a speci /f_ic time. It ’s often evolving, ongoing and
very diﬀerent for each person. Trans people may never
choose to undergo a medical process and that doesn’t
invalidate our identity. If we do choose to take these
steps, there can still be several barriers that make this
diﬃcult including /f_inancial access, long waitlists and
a lack of social support . What we choose to do with
our bodies is personal and no one else has a right
to know.3.www.rmit.edu.au/tgd
Gender identity is about how we as individuals experience our gender and show it to
others. For many of us, understanding our gender is an ongoing and complex process
of navigating the gender spectrum, the language we choose and the terms we use to
At RMIT we recognise that supporting the trans and gender diverse community can
require a broader understanding of allyship and a unique set of recommendations.
This guide complements several other resources to support this community . To ﬁnd
out more, including deﬁnitions of terms and a more in depth look at support offered
for both students and staff, visit RMIT’s LGBTQIA+ website for students and staff.
As an ally you can help create a welcoming and safe environment for individuals that
do not conform to conventional gender expectations. Here are some helpful tips to
guide you: Top 10 Tips to be an
Eﬀective Rainbo w Ally
Trans and Gender Diverse Edition
Built by the voices of the RMIT trans and gender diverse community
mistakesAsk us about
languageIf you forget, ask us again. Provide support as an ally to normali se
pronouns in introductions, add them to your email signature and wear
a pronoun badge . Whenever possible, ask everyone their pronouns
and not just those whose gender identity is unknown or unclear.
Where possible, use inclusive and all gender language such as
they/them pronouns and ‘folks’ or ‘team’ instead of ‘guys’ or ‘ladies ’.
It might seem like a small step but can help individuals within
groups feel included and much more comfortable.
Fight for our identities, names and pronouns. Call out transphobic
behavior and don’t stand by if you see or hear something harmful.
An ally ’s actions carry a lot of weight and can have a signi/f_icant
impact on cultural change and community allyship. If you hear
someone being misgendered or misnamed (and you know they
wouldn’t want to be) step in to correct them. This can be a simple,
“Their pronouns are actually.. .” or something of this nature.
If you use the incorrect name or pronouns, the best thing to do is
apologise and move on. Don’t make a scene or try to justify mistakes.
This will only cause more harm.4.
Respect identities Don’t ask us what our dead/birth name was or why we chose our
name. The same can be said for the language or terms we use to
identify. We don’t want your unsolicited advice about whether or not
you think it suits us or not.8.
researchJust because we are the only trans people you know doesn’t mean
we are your only source of information. Listen to those who are in a
position to share their lived experiences but understand not
everyone is comfortable doing this. Ask yourself, would you ask a
cisgender colleague that same question?9.
gender spacesDon't worry about what bathrooms we use. We’re often
already doing this whenever we’re faced
with binary male and female options.
It can take an incredible amount of
courage to step into a bathroom or
space that aﬃrms our gender
identity so what we need is your
support not your opinion.10.
inclusion@rmit.edu.au
to share your tips on being
an eﬀective rainbow Ally.Want to
Equity and Inclusion,
We thank RMIT staff, students, and external
organisations and contacts for their help in
developing this resource.
For feedback or to get in touch, please
email us at: inclusion@rmit.edu.au