upon as the current version. It is the responsibility of the reader to refer to RMIT's Policy Register for the latest version of this document.Page 1 of 9Student Conduct Policy
(1) The purpose of this policy is to:
provide a framework for the management of student conduct that may cause harm to the RMIT community, ora.
might otherwise constitute general misconduct, academic misconduct, high risk misconduct or a breach of an
RMIT regulation, policy or procedure
support a consistent approach to the management of student conduct mattersb.
set out the principles that underpin RMIT’s approach to the reasonable and proportionate regulation of studentc.
conduct in order to enable RMIT to discharge its obligations regarding:
teaching and research activitiesi.
supporting the wellbeing of students and staffii.
compliance with government legislationiii.
maintenance and protection of academic integrity, andiv.
its reasonable requirements regarding programs and courses and their delivery. v.
Section 2 - Overview
establishes the scope and key principles informing RMIT’s student conduct framework and its administrativea.
and disciplinary processes for students
sets out the primary roles and bodies within RMIT that are responsible for implementing, and have powersb.
under, RMIT’s student conduct framework, and
provides a structure for handling potential student misconduct and determinations in accordance with thec.
Student Conduct Regulations .
(3) This policy applies to all students within the RMIT Group, including:
students on approved leave of absence and students who have allowed their enrolment to lapsea.
students studying through Open Universities Australia (OUA) or other third-party providers of RMIT courses andb.
students studying RMIT programs at global partner institutionsc.
higher degree by research students, including those who have submitted work for examinationd.
graduands or past students, ande.
students in single courses.f.
upon as the current version. It is the responsibility of the reader to refer to RMIT's Policy Register for the latest version of this document.Page 2 of 9(4) This policy applies to students who are also staff of RMIT.
Where a person who is the subject of a potential misconduct report is a student as well as an RMIT staffa.
member, staff conduct action may also apply under the relevant framework.
The factors determining the policy or policies that will apply are set out in the Student Conduct Procedure . b.
(5) Reports of potential student misconduct will be dealt with fairly and in accordance with this policy and
corresponding procedures.
(6) RMIT is committed to:
supporting the welfare and wellbeing of all students, including those about whom a potential studenta.
misconduct report is made
demonstrating compassion and empathy to students and minimising trauma which can be associated withb.
reporting, investigating, hearing, or determining matters which involve harm, including sexual harm, or physical
or psychological injury
supporting the wellbeing of persons who are affected by or involved in the reported conduct and makingc.
reasonable adjustments where a person requires specific support as a result of their age, disability, sex, gender
or gender identity, cultural, religious or language background
ensuring that the anonymity, confidentiality and privacy of reporting students as well as respondent andd.
appellant students is maintained to the extent practicable
transparency where there are specific circumstances in which RMIT has an obligation to tell other peoplee.
internally about a report, or to make an external report, which may include providing information which
prompt disclosure of any actual or potential conflict of interest by all parties f.
reporting and responding to external authorities where appropriate or required by lawg.
acting on and learning from findings of misconduct, identifying problems, improving services, and addressingh.
underlying causes and trends to prevent reoccurrence, and
being guided by a trauma-informed approach for matters involving sexual, psychological or physical harm. i.
(7) Student conduct matters will:
be assessed and managed in a professional and fair manner, with clear communications and processes, ina.
accordance with the principles of procedural fairness, and
be determined utilising “the balance of probabilities” as the requisite standard of proof to be applied whenb.
determining matters under this policy and corresponding procedures.
(8) RMIT recognises its obligation to support academic freedom and freedom of speech, and to provide the conditions
for free enquiry, informed intellectual discourse and reasoned debate in accordance with the Intellectual Freedom
The exercise of academic freedom and freedom of speech by a student, subject to the limitations detailed in thea.
Intellectual Freedom Policy , will not constitute misconduct nor attract any penalty or other adverse action by
reference only to its content.
upon as the current version. It is the responsibility of the reader to refer to RMIT's Policy Register for the latest version of this document.Page 3 of 9Student Conduct
(9) Students must behave in a manner that is consistent with RMIT’s commitment to providing a safe learning and
working environment. RMIT fosters an environment of mutual respect. As members of a diverse community, students
must treat others with respect, and are entitled to be respected.
(10) RMIT will take appropriate action to address conduct that may cause harm to members of the RMIT community or
might otherwise constitute misconduct or a breach of an RMIT regulation, policy or procedure.
(11) The Student Conduct Regulations prescribe the categories of general, academic and high risk misconduct; a nonexhaustive list of behaviours comprising general and academic misconduct are set out within Student Conduct Policy
Schedule 1 - Student Misconduct to this policy.
(12) Where a potential student misconduct report appears to involve a potential breach of research integrity, the
matter will be reported to the Research Integrity Office where action may be taken in accordance with the Research
Policy and Research Integrity Breach Management Procedure , however any such action will not result in a student
Executive Suspension
(13) The purpose of an executive suspension is to manage immediate risk caused by high risk student misconduct.
(14) If the University Secretary and Academic Registrar receives a report regarding potential high risk student
misconduct, the University Secretary and Academic Registrar may make a recommendation to the Vice-Chancellor or
delegate that an executive suspension be imposed on a student in accordance with Regulation 23 of the Student
Conduct Regulations to manage immediate risk.
(15) The University Secretary and Academic Registrar's recommendation will provide details about the potential high
risk student misconduct. The recommendation may also propose additional terms, conditions or directions regarding
an executive suspension, such as:
measures to ensure that all parties are safe and that the student is offered the support necessary to return toa.
directions to a student not to attend campus or other RMIT premisesb.
directions to a student relating to contact or communication with other students, staff, or other members of thec.
conditions or restrictions on the times or dates, or the way in which, a student may attend RMIT premises ord.
participate in RMIT-related events, activities, and functions, including where those events or activities occur
restrictions on a student’s access to or use of RMIT facilities or resources, including computing and networke.
facilities, such as online learning portals, email or other RMIT technology infrastructure or services, or
restrictions applying to or a suspension of a student’s enrolment.f.
(16) If a student does not comply with any of the terms, conditions or directions of an executive suspension, this noncompliance may itself be misconduct under the Student Conduct Policy .
(17) Where there is a report of potential student misconduct associated with an executive suspension, the matter will
be heard by the Student Conduct Board to determine if there has been student misconduct, and whether any other
consequences or penalties should apply. For the avoidance of doubt, an executive suspension may be imposed
independent of a student conduct process for the purposes of managing immediate risk.
upon as the current version. It is the responsibility of the reader to refer to RMIT's Policy Register for the latest version of this document.Page 4 of 9Temporary Suspension
(18) A student whose behaviour is disrupting RMIT activities, damaging property, or endangering others, may
immediately in response to that incident be required to leave the premises and not return that day by any staff
member responsible for:
a teaching or assessment sessiona.
a class or meeting conducted by, or for, RMITb.
an RMIT facility or areac.
any other activity within the precincts of RMIT.d.
(19) The staff member will report both the incident and the action taken to the relevant Senior Officer as soon as
Hearing and Determining Reports of Potential Student Misconduct
Senior Officers and Student Conduct Board
(20) Senior Officers and the Student Conduct Board, in accordance with Part G of the Student Conduct Regulations ,
this policy and corresponding procedures, may:
consider potential misconduct reportsa.
make and direct investigationsb.
conduct hearings, andc.
make determinations regarding findings of fact, whether misconduct has occurred and any appropriate actions,d.
consequences or penalties to be applied.
Student Conduct Appeals Committee
(21) The Student Conduct Appeals Committee, in accordance with the Student Conduct Regulations , this policy and
corresponding procedures, may consider and make determinations in response to eligible student appeal submissions
that have been lodged against decisions (findings of fact), or the consequences or penalties applied by:
a Senior Officer, ora.
the Student Conduct Board. b.
Consequences and/or Penalties of Misconduct Findings
(22) A Senior Officer may apply consequences or penalties in finding that a respondent student has engaged in
misconduct in accordance with the Student Conduct Regulation 43.
Where a Senior Officer requires a student to undertake or participate in any educative, learning, mediation ora.
resolution focused activity in accordance with Regulation 43(h), this may be achieved through any of the
facilitated discussions, coaching or an educative activity, between the student and other relevant ori.
affected staff or students, or any other learning or resolution-focussed activity
supporting the student to understand the impact or effect of their actions, including through participationii.
requiring the student to provide an undertaking not to engage in the misconduct again iii.
mediation of associated matters iv.
upon as the current version. It is the responsibility of the reader to refer to RMIT's Policy Register for the latest version of this document.Page 5 of 9facilitated participation in a restorative engagement process or activities through Safer Community. v.
Student Conduct Board
(23) The Student Conduct Board may apply consequences and/or penalties in finding that a respondent student has
engaged in misconduct in accordance with the Student Conduct Regulation 45.
Senior Officers and Student Conduct Board
(24) In determining what actions to take or consequences or penalties to implement, a Senior Officer or Student
Conduct Board will, where appropriate and to the extent practicable, take into account what actions or consequences
the persons who have been impacted or affected by the student’s misconduct would prefer to be implemented.
For example, a conciliatory or mediated outcome may be appropriate where the misconduct is not of a serious nature
but has still had an impact or effect on another person, and where the impacted or affected person wishes to
undertake conciliation or mediation.
(25) A determination relating to grades or marks in an assessment task or course (including recording a failure)
overrides grades or marks already assigned and determinations made in relation to the assessment task or course
grade or mark under any other policy.
Appeals, External Reviews and Other Proceedings
(26) Subject to satisfying eligibility requirements, students may request a hearing of the Student Conduct Appeals
Committee to consider an appeal against a misconduct decision made by a Senior Officer or the Student Conduct
(27) Students may exercise their right to external review of determinations made under this policy, associated
procedures, and the Student Conduct Regulations .
(28) RMIT may suspend or pause any internal process under this policy where the student exercises their right to
external review of a determination involving the same or similar subject matter, or where the same or similar subject
matter is subject to legal proceedings, or any other external, regulatory or investigative processes or proceedings,
including criminal investigations, or professional disciplinary proceedings.
If such a suspension or pause is applied to allow a student to exercise an external right of review, and delay,a.
loss, or any other detriment flows from that suspension or pause, then that delay, loss, or detriment is, to the
extent that it affects the student, the responsibility of the student.
(29) Students must comply with the:
RMIT Student Charter a.
RMIT regulations, policies and procedures relating to student behaviour and conduct, including thoseb.
concerning acceptable use of network, internet and email facilities and services, and
RMIT Statement of Student Responsibilities . c.
(30) Officers must report conduct in accordance with this policy upon receiving information and forming a reasonable
belief that a student may have engaged in misconduct as defined in this policy.
(31) Senior Officers are responsible for:
upon as the current version. It is the responsibility of the reader to refer to RMIT's Policy Register for the latest version of this document.Page 6 of 9assessing and referring conduct mattersa.
undertaking and directing investigations, determining reports of potential general and academic studentb.
misconduct as prescribed by this policy, and
managing student conduct records, analysis, and reporting.c.
(32) The University Secretary and Academic Registrar (or delegate) is responsible for:
oversight, compliance and the review of this policy, and approval of corresponding procedures and guidancea.
identifying opportunities for continuous improvementb.
maintaining and publishing the register of Senior Officersc.
determining eligibility of student appeal submissionsd.
liaising with external parties such as police and other government bodiese.
monitoring high risk misconductf.
managing the Student Conduct Board and Student Conduct Appeals Committee hearing process includingg.
authorising notifications to external authorities, including mandatory reporting, andh.
misconduct trend reporting and analysis, including annual reports to Academic Board.i.
(33) Senior Officers are appointed in accordance with the Student Conduct Regulations .
(34) Senior Officers are predominantly drawn from positions reporting to Executives or Senior Executives of RMIT,
upon the advice of the University Secretary and Academic Registrar. The University Secretary and Academic Registrar
is notified of appointments.
(35) Where a student has not complied with or fulfilled any direction, penalty or consequence imposed or applied
under this policy or its corresponding procedures by the prescribed date, subject to the absolute discretion of the
University Secretary and Academic Registrar, RMIT will not:
permit the student to re-enrola.
issue or provide the student with any statement of results, orb.
grant the student any award.c.
(36) Where a member of staff fails to comply with the provisions of this policy or corresponding procedures, the matter
may be referred for disciplinary action.
(37) Breaches of this policy by a student (including any malicious or vexatious reports) may be treated as general
misconduct in accordance with this policy.
(38) This policy will be reviewed at least once every five (5) years in accordance with the Policy Governance Policy .
Section 5 - Schedules
(39) This policy includes the following schedule:
Student Conduct Policy Schedule 1 – Student Misconduct a.
upon as the current version. It is the responsibility of the reader to refer to RMIT's Policy Register for the latest version of this document.Page 7 of 9Section 6 - Procedures and Resources
(40) The following documents are established in accordance with this policy:
Student Conduct Procedure a.
Student Conduct – Senior Officer Procedure b.
Student Conduct Board Procedure c.
Student Conduct - Appeals Procedure d.
Section 7 - Definitions
(Note: Commonly defined terms are in the RMIT Policy Glossary. Any defined terms below are specific to this policy).
Academic freedommeans the freedom of students to engage in intellectual enquiry, express their opinions in relation
to RMIT, and to participate in student societies and associations, as detailed in the Student Conduct
Appellant studentis a student who seeking to appeal against a ﬁnding of misconduct, or the consequences or penalty
applied by a Senior Oﬃcer or Student Conduct Board.
Assessment session means the speciﬁed period in which the assessment task is conducted.
Assessment taskmeans any examination, essay, assignment, practical or vocational placement or other work, in
whole or in part, which forms part of a student’s academic assessment.
probabilitiesmeans the standard of proof that requires a decision maker to consider whether it is “more probable
than not” that an action, incident, or event had occurred as reported.
network facilitiesincludes, but is not limited to, computers, computer systems, email and other communications
networks and information facilities together with associated software, ﬁles and data storage and
Cost of any damagemeans the monetary value of any damage to, or loss of, any property (including the cost of repair or
Course materialsmeans materials produced by staﬀ to support or facilitate teaching, learning, development and
assessment such as: lecture or tutorial notes, presentations, recordings, assessment tasks and
documentation (essay, assignment, test or exam questions, grading rubrics or assessment criteria),
study guides and resources.
Document fraudmeans knowingly falsifying, forging or submitting documents that contain misleading or false
Misconductincludes general misconduct, academic misconduct and/or high risk misconduct as deﬁned in the
Student Conduct Regulations and referenced in this policy.
Oﬃcer means any person employed or engaged as staﬀ within the RMIT Group.
Plagiarisemeans the presentation of the work, idea, or creation of another person, without appropriate
referencing, as though it is one's own.
PlagiarismThe presentation of the work, idea or creation of another person as though it is one’s own.
Plagiarism is a form of cheating and is a serious academic oﬀence that may lead to expulsion from
the University. Plagiarised material can be drawn from, and presented in, written, graphic or visual
form, including electronic data, and oral presentations. Plagiarism occurs when the origin of the
material used is not appropriately cited.
Respondent studentis a student who is reported to have engaged in conduct which might, if proven, constitute
misconduct, or who has been found to have engaged in misconduct.
upon as the current version. It is the responsibility of the reader to refer to RMIT's Policy Register for the latest version of this document.Page 8 of 9RMIT premises means any buildings, streets, driveways, footways, and any other areas owned or controlled by RMIT
and includes premises on which research, workshops, camps, placements, examinations,
professional, ﬁeld or vocational placements are carried out or form part of a course, and any other
study activities controlled or supervised by, or in the temporary possession of RMIT, including
premises hired or temporarily possessed by RMIT for workshops, camps, examinations or
assessment, or other learning or study activities, and also includes the premises of any interstate or
international partner of RMIT.
Senior Oﬃcermeans the role of Senior Oﬃcer as established under the Student Conduct Regulations and
referenced within this policy.
Appeals Committeemeans the body as deﬁned and convened under the Student Conduct Regulations .
Boardmeans the body as deﬁned and convened under the Student Conduct Regulations .
Suspendmeans to prohibit a student for a speciﬁed period from attending any teaching session or
assessment session or entering RMIT premises, using RMIT’s computing and network facilities, or
representing RMIT, on terms and conditions imposed by RMIT.
Teaching sessionmeans any activity carried out by RMIT as part of the provision of courses for students, including
classes, tutorials, lectures and laboratory or workshop sessions, either in person or via its computing
or network facilities.
upon as the current version. It is the responsibility of the reader to refer to RMIT's Policy Register for the latest version of this document.Page 9 of 9Status and Details
Eﬀective Date 11th July 2025
Review Date 1st January 2027
Approval Authority Manager, Central Policy
Approval Date 1st February 2023
Expiry Date Not Applicable
Policy OwnerSherman Young
Deputy Vice-Chancellor Education
Policy AuthorConnie Merlino
University Secretary and Academic Registrar
Enquiries Contact Student Conduct
Glossary Terms and Definitions
"RMIT Group" - RMIT University and its controlled entities (RMIT Europe, RMIT Online, RMIT Vietnam, RMIT University
"Enrolment" - has the same meaning as enrolled
"Misconduct" - means general misconduct and/or academic misconduct and/or high risk misconduct.
"Officer" - means any person employed or engaged as staff within the RMIT Group