upon as the current version. It is the responsibility of the reader to refer to RMIT's Policy Register for the latest version of this document.Page 1 of 6Academic Integrity Procedure
(1) This procedure sets out the requirements for identifying, managing and responding to breaches of academic
Section 2 - Authority
(2) Authority for this document is established by the Academic Integrity Policy .
(3) This procedure applies to all staff and students of the RMIT Group.
Section 4 - Procedure
Assessment of Breaches
(4) Staff apply their professional and/or academic judgment in identifying potential breaches of academic integrity and
making an initial assessment of the level of violation.
(5) First-time, low-level breaches of academic integrity characterised by inexperience, lack of student knowledge, or
poor writing skills may be managed as an educational opportunity initially by a course coordinator.
(6) Repeat or higher order breaches that may be intentional, deliberately planned, organised or systematic, are
reported to a Senior Officer to manage as a potential instance of academic misconduct under the Student Conduct
Policy . In managing academic integrity breaches that may constitute academic misconduct under the Student Conduct
Policy , Senior Officers refer to the Academic Misconduct Senior Officer Response Guidelines for guidance.
Managing Academic Integrity Breaches
(7) The following processes will be used to address actions or behaviours that constitute a breach of academic
integrity set out within clause (15) of the Academic Integrity Policy .
(8) The following processes may be used to address other actions or behaviours constituting a breach of academic
integrity, seeking to apply a consistent approach for similar kinds of breach.
Failure to Appropriately Acknowledge Sources and Plagiarism
(9) A student’s failure to appropriately and accurately acknowledge their sources may indicate a lack of understanding
of correct referencing practices or may be an instance of plagiarism amounting to academic misconduct. The following
considerations are taken into account in determining the appropriate course of action to take:
the level of knowledge and experience the student has by reference to their university journeya.
upon as the current version. It is the responsibility of the reader to refer to RMIT's Policy Register for the latest version of this document.Page 2 of 6the extent of academic integrity training, including referencing practices relevant to the courseb.
the student’s intentionc.
any prior instances of academic integrity breaches and the educative response taken, andd.
any other relevant circumstances giving rise to the failure.e.
(10) Where a Course Coordinator (or equivalent) finds that a lack of understanding is the basis for the student’s failure
to appropriately and accurately acknowledge their sources, they must treat the instance as an assessment
explain that it is a breach of academic integritya.
require the student to repeat the assessment task and/or deduct marks from the assessment (up to a maximumb.
of 20% of the mark for the assessment task)
In the case of Vocational Education assessment tasks where numerical grading does not form part of thei.
assessment rubric, deduction of marks is not available and the assessment task must be repeated.
direct the student to engage in educational support servicesc.
provide a written warning to the student advising that another breach of academic integrity will be handled asd.
an allegation of academic misconduct and may result in more severe penalties, and
advise the relevant school/industry cluster academic services team (or equivalent) to record the warning.e.
(11) Where a Course Coordinator (or equivalent) suspects that a more serious breach of academic integrity has
occurred, or if the student commits a subsequent breach, they will refer the matter to a Senior Officer for
determination under the Student Conduct Policy as a potential instance of academic misconduct.
Contract Cheating or Ghost Writing
(12) Contract cheating or ghostwriting occurs when a student submits an assessment task that has been completed
for them by a third party and represents it as though it was the student’s own by:
obtaining the assessment task from a commercial service, including internet sites, whether pre-written ora.
specially prepared for the student concerned
submitting an assessment task produced by a third party, including a friend, family member, fellow student or ab.
staff member of the University, or
submitting an assessment task generated or altered by software tools or an unauthorised orc.
unacknowledged algorithm.
(13) Contract cheating or ghostwriting may be detected in assessment tasks by identifying anomalies or
the level of engagement with a course and the quality of assessment tasksa.
assessment content, language level, coherence, punctuation, grammar, or vocabulary between assessmentb.
reference or lack of reference to course materials or requirements, or assessment criteriac.
file naming conventions and metadatad.
formatting within a document and changes in layout between assessment tasks, ore.
the use of referencing software or automatic formatting between assessment tasks.f.
(14) In determining whether a student has engaged in contract cheating, a staff member may:
meet with the student and request the student to provide:a.
upon as the current version. It is the responsibility of the reader to refer to RMIT's Policy Register for the latest version of this document.Page 3 of 6evidence of the research and writing processes (for example, drafts) before final submission, and/ori.
an oral defence of the work to demonstrate authorshipii.
seek advice from a Senior Officer or Student Conduct.b.
(15) Where a Course Coordinator (or equivalent) suspects that a student may have submitted an assessment task that
has been completed by a third party, they will refer the matter to a Senior Officer for determination under the Student
Conduct Policy as a potential instance of academic misconduct.
Collusion or Unauthorised Collaboration
(16) Collusion is unauthorised collaboration with another person or group on an assessment that is presented as the
student’s or group’s own work, or as the work of other students. Collusion occurs when a student or group, without
authorisation from a Course Coordinator (or equivalent):
works with one or more people to prepare and produce an assessmenta.
allows others to copy their work or shares course materialb.
allows another person to prepare or edit an assessmentc.
produces or substantially edits an assessment for another student, ord.
offers to produce academic work for other students.e.
(17) Collusion occurs whether or not the persons or assessment concerned are connected with RMIT.
(18) Where a Course Coordinator (or equivalent) suspects that collusion or unauthorised collaboration has occurred
they will refer the matter to a Senior Officer for determination under the Student Conduct Policy as a potential
instance of academic misconduct.
Falsification and Fabrication of Information
(19) Falsification and fabrication occurs when a student presents untrue information or omits to disclose information
relating to an assessment task, including by:
providing incorrect or misleading statements about research, results, or historya.
inventing or distorting data (including statistical data) used in an assessment, orb.
inventing or distorting arguments, whether represented as direct quotations or not, ascribed to otherc.
(20) Information provided by students that may be falsified or fabricated may relate to:
Work Integrated Learning placement and assessment requirements, placement attendance, participation,a.
training, projects, assessments, or reports
attendance and or participation in other learning activitiesb.
falsified documents and reportsc.
inclusion of citations to non-existent or incorrect sourcesd.
falsified or manipulated text matching software reports, ore.
word count declarations.f.
(21) When a Course Coordinator (or equivalent) suspects that information provided by a student in relation to an
assessment task has been falsified or fabricated they will refer the matter to a Senior Officer for determination under
the Student Conduct Policy as a potential instance of academic misconduct.
upon as the current version. It is the responsibility of the reader to refer to RMIT's Policy Register for the latest version of this document.Page 4 of 6Attempting to Gain Unfair Advantage in a Supervised Assessment
(22) Students breach academic integrity when they use any method to attempt to gain an unfair advantage in an
invigilated or supervised assessment or test, including but not limited to:
communicating, or attempting to communicate, with a fellow student or individual who is neither an invigilatora.
nor a member of University staff
copying, or attempting to copy from a fellow studentb.
being in possession of any unauthorised material or device which contains or conveys, or is capable ofc.
conveying information concerning the subject matter under examination, including any unauthorised printed or
written material, or electronic calculating or information storage device; or mobile phones or other
communication device
recording, transmitting or disseminating questions and/or answers to themselves or another persond.
impersonating another student, ore.
failing to comply with an instruction by an officer appointed to supervise the assessment task.f.
(23) When a student is found to have attempted to gain unfair advantage in an invigilated or supervised assessment,
the matter will be referred to a Senior Officer for determination under the Student Conduct Policy as a potential
instance of academic misconduct.
Student Advocacy and Support
(24) Students will be advised of support services available to them as part of any academic integrity breach report,
investigation or outcome, for example:
Equitable Learning Servicesc.
principal student organisation advocacy and support services.d.
Section 5 - Definitions
(Note: Commonly defined terms are in the RMIT Policy Glossary. Any defined terms below are specific to this policy).
Assessment taskMeans any examination, essay, assignment, practical or vocational placement or other work, in
whole or in part, which forms part of a student's academic assessment.
Course coordinatorFor the purposes of this policy, course coordinator refers to the academic or teaching staﬀ member
who is responsible for the management, conduct, teaching and assessment of a course. Speciﬁc
titles may vary across the RMIT Group.
Course materialsMeans materials produced by staﬀ to support or facilitate teaching, learning, development and
assessment such as: lecture or tutorial notes, presentations, recordings, assessment tasks and
documentation (essay, assignment, test or exam questions, grading rubrics or assessment
criteria), study guides and resources.
organisationThe main body representing students at the relevant RMIT campus.
Senior OﬃcerMeans a staﬀ member appointed to the role of Senior Oﬃcer in accordance with the Student
upon as the current version. It is the responsibility of the reader to refer to RMIT's Policy Register for the latest version of this document.Page 5 of 6
upon as the current version. It is the responsibility of the reader to refer to RMIT's Policy Register for the latest version of this document.Page 6 of 6Status and Details
Eﬀective Date 11th July 2025
Review Date 2nd August 2026
Approval Authority Manager, Central Policy
Approval Date 4th August 2021
Expiry Date Not Applicable
Policy OwnerConnie Merlino
Policy AuthorKathryn Wardill
Associate Director, Integrity and Assessment Support
Enquiries Contact Academic Policy
Glossary Terms and Definitions
"RMIT Group" - RMIT University and its controlled entities (RMIT Europe, RMIT Online, RMIT Vietnam, RMIT University
"Officer" - means any person employed or engaged as staff within the RMIT Group