upon as the current version. It is the responsibility of the reader to refer to RMIT's Policy Register for the latest version of this document.Page 1 of 7Academic Integrity Policy
(1) This policy ensures the university takes a consistent approach to academic integrity across the RMIT Group. It sets
out RMIT’s expectations of staff and students in upholding academic integrity standards, supporting an educative
approach to academic integrity, and in deterring and detecting breaches of academic integrity.
Section 2 - Overview
(2) The academic integrity policy:
promotes ethical academic scholarship and a positive culture of academic integrity aligning with our valuesa.
defines staff and student roles and responsibilities with respect to academic integrity outcomesb.
adopts and encourages an educative approach to addressing and managing breaches of academic integrityc.
provides a range of tools and resources to support staff and students in understanding good practiced.
prevents and deters academic integrity breachese.
acknowledges and incorporates the established research integrity principles and practices within the Research f.
Policy informed by the Australian Code for the Responsible Conduct of Research, 2018 (the Code) and
(3) This policy applies to all staff and students of the RMIT Group.
Commitment to Academic Integrity
(4) Staff and students at RMIT commit to conducting themselves in a manner that is consistent with the principles of
academic integrity set out in this policy when undertaking teaching, learning, assessment, academic scholarship and
research activities.
Definition of Academic Integrity
(5) Academic integrity means that staff and students at RMIT act with the core values of honesty, trust, respect,
fairness, and responsibility in education, learning, teaching, training and research, including by acknowledging the
sources of ideas; both original and the work of others.
(6) Through the academic integrity policy, RMIT will:
upon as the current version. It is the responsibility of the reader to refer to RMIT's Policy Register for the latest version of this document.Page 2 of 7promote and foster a culture of academic integrity across the RMIT Groupa.
adopt an educative approach to academic integrity with shared responsibility for its establishment amongstb.
adopt a whole-of-organisation approach to academic integrity involving:c.
learning and teaching strategiesi.
staff and student educationii.
early intervention processesiii.
detection of breaches of academic integrityiv.
enforcement mechanisms.v.
(7) RMIT undertakes to detect and deter breaches of academic integrity through strategies including but not limited
manual detection by academic and teaching staffa.
using content matching or authenticity softwareb.
monitoring websites that enable academic integrity breaches to take placec.
the management and blocking of websites that breach academic integrity such as assessment file sharing, ord.
illegal websites that offer contract cheating services.
(8) Academic integrity breach data is:
confidentially and securely maintaineda.
made available for the purposes of managing potential breaches of academic integrityb.
managed and analysed for quality assurance, learning and teaching and process improvement, proceduralc.
fairness, and transparency.
Student Responsibilities
The intention of these provisions is to provide best-practice guidance in upholding academic integrity and mitigate the
risk of future breaches occurring.
(9) Students share responsibility for maintaining academic integrity at RMIT; this is achieved through:
understanding and adhering to RMIT’s expectations regarding academic integritya.
awareness and use of academic integrity educative resources and toolsb.
the honest presentation of academic workc.
accountability for the authorship and originality of work submitted including cooperating with validation andd.
authentication requests from staff
using assessment declarations, and content matching or authenticity software prior to submissione.
appropriately and accurately acknowledging the work of othersf.
acknowledging any re-use of original work from previous assessment tasksg.
adherence to assessment rulesh.
adhering to group processes and outcomes when participating in group assessmenti.
conducting research responsibly in keeping with the principles and practices established in the Research Policy j.
securing and retaining assessment and developmental materials for the duration of the programk.
understanding and using academic referencing conventionsl.
awareness and use of academic support services and resources including special consideration, and a range ofm.
upon as the current version. It is the responsibility of the reader to refer to RMIT's Policy Register for the latest version of this document.Page 3 of 7equitable learning services as required.
Staff Responsibilities
The intention of these provisions is to provide best-practice guidance in upholding academic integrity and mitigate the
risk of future breaches occurring.
(10) Staff engaged in learning and teaching, assessment, higher degree by research candidate supervision, and
related activities, demonstrate a commitment to academic integrity through responsibilities including and not limited
supporting students to understand the importance of academic integrity as part of their chosen area of studya.
and promoting a culture that encourages positive academic integrity outcomes
providing academic integrity tools and resources at the commencement of students’ university experienceb.
including guidance on what constitutes a breach of academic integrity
implementing early intervention strategies to support prevention of breaches of academic integrityc.
undertaking professional development and training on educative approaches to academic integrity, includingd.
internal workshops and initiatives designed to support staff to maintain academic integrity
supporting a positive learning experience, for example clear notification of assessment deadlines, suitablee.
equipment, materials and environment and other expectations
conducting research responsibly in keeping with the principles and practices established in the Research Policy f.
providing arrangements for secure collection of assessment tasksg.
providing guidance to students on positive group work in assessmenth.
acting on suspected breaches of academic integrityi.
adhering to principles of procedural fairness when managing potential breaches of academic integrity.j.
(11) Schools/industry clusters provide academic integrity breach notifications to the Centre for Education Innovation
and Quality (or equivalent) for the purposes of facilitating continuous improvement.
(12) Staff model their commitment to academic integrity principles through their own professional and scholarly work.
College and Portfolio Responsibilities
(13) Colleges and portfolios support a culture of academic integrity by:
providing academic integrity support and training for students and staffa.
providing educative resources and tools for students and staff that address academic integrity standards andb.
expectations specific to disciplines
supporting staff with professional developmentc.
ensuring that students and staff have access to content matching software or authenticity reportsd.
ensuring that students are aware of potential consequences and penalties for breaches of academic integritye.
managing oversight and trends of academic breach reporting, via college quality enhancement teams (orf.
equivalent), in conjunction with the Academic Registrar's Group.
Academic Registrar's Group Responsibilities
(14) The Academic Registrar's Group is responsible for:
monitoring and responding to high risk academic integrity mattersa.
recording allegations and breaches of academic integrityb.
upon as the current version. It is the responsibility of the reader to refer to RMIT's Policy Register for the latest version of this document.Page 4 of 7in conjunction with the Centre for Education Innovation and Quality scheduled reporting on trends andc.
strategies to mitigate breaches of academic integrity to governing bodies
supporting staff to understand and manage breaches of academic integrity in particular where these intersectd.
with the Student Conduct Policy
supporting colleges and portfolios with advice, tools and training including the production of authenticitye.
monitoring compliance with this policy.f.
Academic Integrity Breaches
(15) A breach of academic integrity involves acting or behaving in a dishonest, unethical, unfair or irresponsible way in
teaching, learning or research activities. Breaches of academic integrity include, but are not limited to the following
significant failure to appropriately and accurately acknowledge the work of othersb.
failure to appropriately and accurately acknowledge one’s own work where original work has been reused fromc.
previous assessment tasks (also known as self-plagiarism)
‘washing’, or the use of software services to disguise plagiarismd.
submitting the work of another person or from an online study platform as one’s own, or undertaking ane.
assessment task for another person (contract cheating or ghost writing)
collusion or unauthorised collaboration in the preparation or presentation of workf.
falsification, fabrication, manipulation or misrepresentation of data or resultsg.
attempting to gain unfair advantage in an invigilated assessment, breaching the rules for the conduct ofh.
invigilated assessment in a manner that defeats or compromises the purposes of the task
behaviour that violates assessment instructions thereby defeating or compromising the purpose of thei.
unauthorised sharing of course materials and previously submitted assessment tasks including via online studyj.
misuse or unauthorised use of technology or equipment.k.
(16) Allegations of academic integrity breaches will be responded to in a fair, consistent, transparent and timely
manner in accordance with the Academic Integrity Procedure .
(17) Prevention, detection, investigation and resolution of potential research integrity breaches are managed in
accordance with the Research Policy , Research Integrity Breach Management Procedure , Student Conduct Policy and
other RMIT policies as appropriate.
(18) Breaches of this policy by students or staff members that adversely affect or undermine academic integrity will
Student Conduct Policya.
Code of Conduct . b.
(19) This policy will be reviewed every five (5) years in accordance with RMIT’s Policy Governance Policy .
upon as the current version. It is the responsibility of the reader to refer to RMIT's Policy Register for the latest version of this document.Page 5 of 7Section 5 - Procedures and Resources
(20) Refer to the following document which is established in accordance with this policy:
Academic Integrity Procedurea.
Section 6 - Definitions
Note: Commonly defined terms are in the RMIT Policy Glossary. Any defined terms below are specific to this policy).
misconductConduct by a student that is intended, or likely to have the eﬀect of obtaining, for that student or
any other person, an advantage in the performance of assessment by unauthorised, dishonest,
unethical or unfair means whether or not the advantage was obtained.
See also the Student Conduct Policy .
Academic Registrar's
GroupStudent Conduct unit within the Integrity.
Assessment taskmeans any examination, essay, assignment, practical or vocational placement or other work, in
whole or in part, which forms part of a student's academic assessment.
(or Equivalent)teams led by the Senior Manager Quality Enhancement within the colleges.
Collusionis unauthorised collaboration. Occurs where more than one student contributes to an assessment
task that is submitted as the work of an individual student where the collaboration is not permitted
for the assessment task. Collusion may also occur in group work where unauthorised collaboration
occurs between groups.
Contract cheating is the use of outsourced material for the purpose of submission by a student for assessment. The
person submitting the work is being dishonest by representing it as their own. This diﬀers from
traditional forms of plagiarism, which more commonly involves copying of existing submitted or
published work. Contract cheating can take on many forms and is not limited to the purchasing of
assessment material from online sources. Students may obtain assessments from peers or ‘tutors’
and the arrangement may not involve a ﬁnancial exchange. Signiﬁcantly, the submitted work is
usually original in nature making it diﬃcult to detect using text matching plagiarism software.
Copyingoccurs when paragraphs, sentences, a single sentence or signiﬁcant parts of a sentence, or the key
points or structure of another person’s work have been used in an assessment without
acknowledging the source.
Course materialsmeans materials produced by staﬀ to support or facilitate teaching, learning, development and
assessment such as: lecture or tutorial notes, presentations, recordings, assessment tasks and
documentation (essay, assignment, test or exam questions, grading rubrics or assessment criteria),
study guides and resources.
Fabricationoccurs when a student claims to have carried out tests, experiments, research or observations that
have not taken place.
Falsiﬁcationinvolves the misrepresentation of research data, source material or results, or the presentation of
results that are not supported by the evidence.
Impersonationinvolves the completion and submission of an assessment task by another person that dishonestly
misrepresents themselves as the person to whom the assessment task was assigned. Impersonation
can also take place in the context of invigilated assessment wherein a person completes the
assessment on behalf of another whilst dishonestly misrepresenting their identity.
Plagiarismthe presentation of the work, idea or creation of another person as though it is one’s own. Plagiarism
is a form of cheating and is a serious academic oﬀence that may lead to expulsion from the
University. Plagiarised material can be drawn from, and presented in, written, graphic or visual form,
including electronic data, and oral presentations. Plagiarism occurs when the origin of the material
used is not appropriately cited.
upon as the current version. It is the responsibility of the reader to refer to RMIT's Policy Register for the latest version of this document.Page 6 of 7
upon as the current version. It is the responsibility of the reader to refer to RMIT's Policy Register for the latest version of this document.Page 7 of 7Status and Details
Eﬀective Date 11th July 2025
Review Date 2nd August 2026
Approval Authority Manager, Central Policy
Approval Date 21st March 2022
Expiry Date Not Applicable
Policy OwnerSherman Young
Deputy Vice-Chancellor Education
Policy AuthorConnie Merlino
Enquiries Contact Academic Policy
Glossary Terms and Definitions
"RMIT Group" - RMIT University and its controlled entities (RMIT Europe, RMIT Online, RMIT Vietnam, RMIT University