Helping you maximise your RMIT experiences
CRICOS provider number: 00122A | RTO Code: 3046
RMIT Capabilities describe the skills,
knowledge and values that you will develop
through your studies.
At RMIT, you'll develop six unique and future focused capabilities for learning through life and
work. These are called the RMIT Capabilities ,
and they are designed to help prepare you for the evolving nature of work and global engagement.
The capabilities are built into your program and inform the design and delivery of your learning activities and assessments. They also inform some extra -curricular experiences at RMIT.
This means, by the time you graduate, you will have developed these capabilities and be ready to apply them in your life and work.2
Introducing the RMIT Capabilities
Each RMIT Capability is divided into sub capabilities, accompanied by 'Can do
These statements are practical, action oriented descriptions designed to help you
identify the specific skills and behaviours you
are expected to develop within each RMIT Capability.
1. Ethical Global Citizen
Sub-Capability Can do statement
1A Diversity Can embrace diversity and
inclusivity, leading respectful and
equitable interactions and
1B Aboriginal and Torres Strait
Islander Knowledge SystemCan respect and integrate Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander knowledge.
1C Inclusion Can advocate for inclusion and equity, dismantling inequality
1D Global Perspectives Can apply globally inclusive
perspectives, integrating diversity in decision making.
1E Sustainable Can design and evaluate sustainable practices, influencing decision -making.
1F Sustainability Development
GoalsCan use the United Nation’s
Sustainable Development Goals
to guide decisions and actions for global well -being.You employ globally inclusive perspectives and a commitment to
diversity, inclusion and respect. You actively engage with
Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples’ perspectives, world
views and lifeways as important knowledge systems. You
contribute to a more sustainable world through engagement with
the Sustainability Development Goals . 4
2. Connected
Sub-Capability Can do statement
2A Meaningful Connections Can build and maintain a network
of meaningful connections for
learning and growth.
2B Collaborate Can collaborate effectively,
developing shared goals and mutual respect.
2C Multidisciplinary & Cross Functional TeamworkCan lead and join diverse cross functional teams for innovative problem- solving.You actively establish meaningful connections with professional,
peer, government, industry and/or community networks. You
collaborate with diverse, multidisciplinary and cross -functional
teams to solve complex problems5
3. Adaptive
Sub-Capability Can do statement
3A Intellectual Agility Can analyse real-world scenarios,
identify information, and propose
solutions using critical thinking.
3B Transferable Skills Can synthesise transferable skills,
evaluate utility, and establish
adaptability across contexts.
3C Grow Professionally Can create growth plans aligning skills, experiences, and
opportunities with career goals.
3D Self -awareness Can assess behaviors, refine
actions, and improve based on self-awareness and core values.
3E Grow Personally Can reflect on growth, appraise development, and plan strategies for personal improvement.You employ intellectual agility, knowledge and skills to develop
solutions in a fast -changing world. You utilise self-awareness to
reflect on learning and experiences to build transferable skills and
grow personally and professionally. 6
4. Digitally Adept
Sub-Capability Can do statement
4A Digital Skills Can evaluate and use digital
functions proficiently across
devices, applications, and
4B Emerging technologies Can analyse and integrate current
technologies, foresee impacts, and ideate opportunities.
4C Innovate Can apply critical analysis of technology and society to lead innovative projects solving real world problems.
4D Human skills Can adapt human skills, integrate with digital skills, and influence for positive outcomes.
4E Digital Communication Can critically assess and adapt digital communication strategies to effectively share information
across platforms.You create and utilise a blend of digital and human skills, tools
and emerging technologies to learn, solve problems, innovate,
communicate and collaborate.7
5. Expert
Sub-Capability Can do statement
5A Disciplinary Can synthesise disciplinary
knowledge, contribute novel
ideas, and engage in lifelong
5B Interdisciplinary Can integrate knowledge from multiple disciplines to develop
innovative solutions for complex
5C Expertise in real -life
contextsCan critique theories, generate new knowledge, and transfer learning to others.
5D Life -long learner Can reflect, adjust learning
strategies, and prioritise
opportunities for continuous
growth.You establish and continue to grow and apply disciplinary and/or
interdisciplinary knowledge and expertise in real life contexts and
as a life -long learner. 8
6. Critically Engaged
Sub-Capability Can do statement
6A Intellectual independence Can guide peers in rational
decision -making using
knowledge, skills, and research.
6B Engage critically Can critically engage with complex information, manage
bias, and promote constructive
discussion in professional contexts.
6C Use judgment and challenge
assumptionsCan critically challenge assumptions, adapt analytical
methods, and make sound
judgments based on evidence.
6D Undertake research Can independently undertake research, create new knowledge,
and contribute to innovation.You employ intellectual independence and judgement to engage
critically with information, make sound evidence -based decisions,
actively challenge assumptions, and undertake research. 9
•Artwork on pages 2 and 10 is ‘Sentient’ by
Hollie Johnson Hollie is a Gunaikurnai and
Monero Ngarigo woman from Gippsland who
graduated from RMIT with a BA in Photography in 2016.
•Page 3 image generated using Microsoft
Copilot using prompt A happy Lego character
made of stackable blocks that are the colours
of: “gold”, “orange”, “red”, “boysenberry”,
“light purple” and “dark purple”.
•RMIT’s Val was used for editorial support and
idea generation in creating this resource.10